Apply Now
Year 2007
Year 2013
Student Excellence
Our Vision
Home
Leadership & Governance
Experience an immersive, personalized learning environment with accomplished, globally acclaimed and award-winning academicians.
Year 2020
Transform your business idea into reality with globally acclaimed expertise under our unique incubator program – ‘Runway’
Year 2005
IACBE (International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education)...
Commit to a future of equal opportunities, and sustainability with our diverse social initiatives.
Close
Simplify your journey by accessing the information you need right here.
Practice and promote high standards of professional ethics and develop a harmonious relationship with the environment and society.
Create a global knowledge eco-system through training, research, development and consultancy.
Trust
Academic Excellence
School of Liberal Studies with unique transdisciplinary courses was established.
Respect
College of Legal Studies was established in 2007 with a focus on energy specialisation within legal studies
And More…
View All
New identity for the university to reflect its growing stature and pre-eminence in diverse fields
Passion
Pursue excellence in learning that accelerates career growth opportunities by way of top placements and entrepreneurial mentoring.
Year 2017
Purpose
Eligibility Criteria
View All Ranks And Accreditations
Start-up University
First of its kind academic collaboration with IBM
Year 2019
Year 2022
DISR, Ministry of Science Technology
Vision and Mission
Our Mission
Global University
Innovation
A  new identity and rebranding exercise was undertaken to reflect expansion of courses in the EIT sector.
School of Modern Media, India’s only digital-first media school was established.
Industry impact
Welcome to UPES - a university whose top priority is to help students fulfil their aspirations and dreams.
National Board of Accreditation
UPES Core Values
NIRF Ranking 2024
Read More
QS World University Ranking
Develop industry-focused professionals with an international outlook.
UPES was established  in 2003 as Asia's first energy and core sector university
School of Health Sciences & Technology was established with an approach of combining research, technology, and industry collaboration.
Inclusivity
Tomorrow
Innovative ideas, lifelong learning & a global perspective. At UPES, we foster a vibrant & dynamic ecosystem.
Ranks And Accreditations
University Grants Commission
Year 2010
Inculcate integrative thought process among students to instill lifelong learning.
As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2024, the Ministry of Education, India, UPES has been ranked 46, with a rank of 42 in engineering, 41 in management and 28 in law.
To be an institution of global standing for developing professionally competent talent contributing to nation building
Our History
Exploring the possibilities of a UPES education
First School of Design established in Uttrakhand with 48 programs on offer
FAQs
Year 2003
Core Values
Established by Uttrakhand State Government
About Us
Explore integration of learning & application that defines our educational approach.
University of
Foster effective, outcome-based education system to continually improve teaching-learning and research.
Read more
University of Tomorrow
Get ready to become global citizens of the future with exclusive international collaborations.