School Of Modern Media
School Of Design
Choose minor/exploratory subject from other schools at UPES
Academic
Add Minors To Your Degree Program
Academics
Explore our dynamic academic and industry alliances that empower students with real-world insights & experiential learning
Our Schools
Home
Shakti
Close
Minimum 3 characters require
Load More
*' All programs listed here are subject to approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
View All
Industry
Design Your Own Degree
From options available corresponding to the selected program or core degree. UPES offers 200+ specialisation across schools.
We take immense pride in fostering a dynamic learning environment that nurtures minds and shapes futures. Our commitment to academic excellence is reflected in our diverse range of programs offered across various disciplines.
Meritorious girl students with >60% marks in Class XII are awarded scholarship of 20% on Tuition Fee.
Scholarships
03
Eligibility Criteria
From programs like MBA/M.Des. /B.Tech./LL.B./B.Des./BBA/B/Com./B.Sc., etc.
View All Ranks And Accreditations
Vijay
,
01
Meant for students from economically weaker sections of society.
50 scholarships between 35%-100% on Tuition Fee to be awarded to students excelling in sports.
Choose A Core Degree
Read More
NIRF Ranking 2024
Design Labs
School of Advanced Engineering
Infrastructure
From advanced engineering laboratories to modern media studio, experience state-of-the-art facilities designed to elevate your learning experience.
Jyoti
Explore our comprehensive programs and learn
Rankings And Accreditations
*' All programs listed here are subject to the approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
more about available scholarships, infrastructure
Choose A Specialisation
Explore Now
Media Studio
As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2024, the Ministry of Education, India, UPES has been ranked 46, with a rank of 42 in engineering, 41 in management and 28 in law.
Discover our 7 Schools. From Engineering to Business, Law to Health Sciences, our diverse schools offer comprehensive programs, expert faculty, and limitless opportunities.
02
Mechanical Labs
and academic alliances
Programs
Alliances