Leading Scholars Faculty
Dean
Vice Chancellor
UPES has been bringing professionals from various industries into the classroom to share their insights, experiences, and knowledge with students. This approach aims to bridge the gap between theoretical learning and practical application, providing students with a deeper understanding of how concepts are applied in real business or industry contexts.

At the UPES School of Law, one of the important elements is to focus on clinical legal education, which emphasises the practical skills of research, court craft, advocacy, counselling, negotiations, and legal drafting. Understanding the market practices and the commercial aspects of transactions differentiates a regular lawyer from a sought-after one.

The Bar Council of India and the UGC recognise the importance of involving practising advocates and professionals in the teaching and learning process of law schools. To this end, UPES School of Law has a policy on the appointment of Professors of Practice (PoPs), which essentially is an engagement of senior practising advocates and eminent legal professionals. This aligns with international best practices followed by several top foreign universities and law schools.
Home
UPES is probably the fastest growing university in India in terms of research output, with current publications output being about 4 papers per faculty per year with average citations of the recently published papers similar to top institutions globally such as MIT, NUS, Oxford and Cambridge University, and surpass those of leading Indian research institutions such as IISc Bangalore, IITs, etc. In 2024 (
School of Liberal Studies and Media
The scholarly output has grown by more than 370% since 2018. The Field-Weighted Citation Impact was 1.76 in 2023, and in 2024, until May 2024, it is 1.59, with 30% of publications appearing in the top 10% journals by CiteScore percentiles. This showcases UPES's impactful contributions to research.
Close
School of Computer Science
Academic Excellence
Faculty from Renowned Global Institutions
46 UPES faculty members are on the list of the top 2% researchers in the world, according to Stanford list and 5 of these researchers have found a place in one of the most coveted ‘Highly Cited Researchers’ lists published by Clarivate.
Prof. Atri Nautiyal
View All
keeps faculty and students updated with the latest developments around the globe, while the dedicated IPR cell focuses on technology transfer opportunities through patents and copyrights. UPES's commitment to cutting-edge research is evident through collaborations with prestigious organisations such as CERN in Switzerland and KEK in Japan, enabling partnership in the Future Circular Collider (FCC) and Belle II projects.
Dr. Ram K Sharma
Karan Billimoria
A successful entrepreneur and member of the House of Lords, UK, Karan Billimoria shares his experience of visiting UPES and offers valuable advice for young entrepreneurs. 🌟
Head of Business Development - Education and Training at AWS
Entrepreneur & Member of the House of Lords
UPES
The future of AI is bright, and India is all set to lead the charge! By 2027, the demand for 1.35 lakh AI professionals will create incredible career opportunities and fuel innovation across industries.
Academic Excellence Overview
School of Law
View All Ranks And Accreditations
Research Output
UPES supports over 660 PhD scholars and ₹13 Crore allocated annually for fellowships and research.
The capacity-building initiative
Eligibility Criteria
UPES faculty comprises academicians from world-renowned institutions such as Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, Stanford, UC Berkeley, Yale, MIT, Cornell, Columbia, Imperial College London, IISc, IITs, IIMs, National University of Singapore, Tokyo, etc., and includes Rhodes, Fulbright, Commonwealth, Chevening, DAAD, Eiffel and Erasmus scholars. Path-breaking research has paved the way for a rich learning environment at the university.
Prof. Vijaysekhar Chellaboina
Anusandhan
Dr. Bhaskar Bhatt
The university is home to top academics and scholars, including Nobel Prize nominee, Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Awardee, and fellows of esteemed National and International Academies.
NIRF Ranking 2024
Amit Mehta
School of Health Sciences and Technology
World Class Faculty
School of Design
UPES Research Output per capita has increased by 423% since 2019 and H-index from 33 to 99 in the last 5 years.
Rankings And Accreditations
Dr. Padma Venkat
Director
School of Business
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
), nealry 54% of UPES's publications included international co-authors, reflecting its global reach and collaboration.
As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2024, the Ministry of Education, India, UPES has been ranked 46, with a rank of 42 in engineering, 41 in management and 28 in law.
Learn From The Best
Dr. Abhishek Sinha
Industry In The Classroom
Embracing a culture of research and innovation, UPES fosters initiatives such as internal SEED funding for testing research ideas, developing state-of-the-art in-house synthesis and characterisation facilities, and providing high-computation facilities.
UPES academic community includes leading scholars and researchers, such as a Nobel Prize nominee and recipients of prestigious scholarships like Rhodes, Fulbright, Chevening, Commonwealth, Erasmus, Eiffel and DAAD, These scholars have been trained at some of the best institutions in the world, including Harvard, Columbia, Cornell, the University of California Berkeley, Oxford, Cambridge, National University of Singapore, Indian Institute of Science, IITs (Indian Institute of Technology) and so on. Notably 46 UPES faculty members have been featured among the world's top 2% of researchers in their respective fields, according to a research study published by a Stanford University-based research group.
as of 28 May, 2024