Here is everything you need to know about B.Tech. admissions, UPESEAT examination process for the academic year 2025-26.
UPESEAT/ JEE Mains/ Board Merit/ SAT/ CUET
Candidate Guide Document
Refund Policy
(10:00 AM to 7:00 PM)
10 am to 3 pm.
Click here to take a demo test
UPESEAT
Home
Application Process
Non-Exam Pathway
JEE Mains, SAT cut-off rank & CUET score are to be announced (on the UPES website) after the declaration of 2025 results.
Students are recommended to take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the examination.
125
35
Close
Board Merit: Minimum 80% marks in class X, XII, and minimum 80% aggregate in PCM/B.
Load More
In case of any queries or clarifications, please feel free to reach out to us on our toll-free number
Students who have already applied, are advised to follow the Exam process.
Take a Demo Test:
Minimum 50% marks in class X & XII with Physics, Chemistry, Biology/ Math’s, and English as a major subject in XII
Exam Process
Exam slot booking link-
Physics
Exam Pattern
Chemistry
Take a Demo Test –
Total No. of Questions
20
or email
Eligibility Criteria
To Be Announced
B.Tech. - UPESEAT
Admissions
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII with minimum 50 % in PCM (Physics/Chemistry and Mathematics) in class XII.
English Language
Download the Candidate Guide Document
Enquiry
(School of Advanced Engineering/ School of Computer Science)
Scheme of Test - Online | 2 Hours
Results Declaration
Click here to take a Demo Test
Students can log in during the given timeframe and begin with the online test. Please note that the timer starts when the student logs in.
B.Tech. Admissions | UPESEAT 2025
The examination Test window will be from
Apply Online:
Mathematics / Biology
Test duration – 2 hours
Actual credentials (passkey) to appear for the exam on the chosen date will be provided to students one day prior to the exam on the registered email ID and mobile number. This should not be confused with the demo link passkey.
It is recommended that students take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the actual examination.
Comprehension
Login credentials for online exam:
18001028737
No. of Questions
UPESEAT 2025
Mode of Examination – Online test
Click Here to apply at UPES
Admission Alerts
(School of Health Sciences and Technology)
Sections
Selection Criteria
enrollments@upes.ac.in
Process Flow
OR
Aspirants are advised to adhere to the following guidelines:
UPES follows UGC guidelines for refunds.