10% of the tuition fees
Participation at the
Apply Now
Admission Criteria:
Applicable Conditions:
Students desirous of the extension to next semester will be required to submit a fresh application along with the grade card of the last exam passed once a communication is circulated by the Department of Student Welfare (DSW).
30%
75.01% - 85%
, his/her percentage will be rounded off to 80% and will get a said scholarship on tuition fees for 1st year only.
A student/applicant will be eligible for only one type of scholarship/concession in a given academic semester or year. If a student is awarded a particular scholarship/concession but also meet the criteria for one or more than one scholarship/concession at UPES including Domicile (as mandated by regulation), student shall receive the highest of the scholarship/concession offered but not both (Not applicable in case the student is eligible for Academic Performance scholarship from 2nd year onwards). Further, for clarity purposes, Domicile or any other scholarship/concession not opted for shall be deemed to be waived by the student. Said student shall have no claim on Domicile or other scholarship/concession so waived against UPES.
Who will get a scholarship?
fourth place in
Academic Performance scholarship can be clubbed with Domicile scholarship
Applications Start Date:
Scholarships will be awarded as per the seats mentioned above against each game /sport. These seats can be transferred to other games if required after approval of the Vice Chancellor / Registrar.
Applicable for
5
in team game and
Semester, if eligible shall reflected in the fee invoice for 4
Exemplary behaviour and compliance with all other norms as prescribed by the University.
Eligibility Criteria for Fellowship for M.Tech & M.Des Students
Category
Table Tennis
The fee concession will be provided to the wards of employee after meeting the eligibility criteria to the program.
Terms & Conditions / Eligibility
The Result shall be communicated to all shortlisted applicants through Email/SMS.
Since the Free ship is only for one year, therefore, renewal of free ships in the subsequent semester will be based on the:-
Scholarships
Boys Students
Sports Scholarships - Admissions Notification and Important Update
st
Alumni Scholarships
Rest of the eligible students
Alumni will have to clear the selection process.
S. No.
Admissions
tuition fees and
Scholarship will be given in the order of Merit.
International Level
The scholarship shall be withdrawn and will not be reinstated in case the student is found guilty of his / her involvement in any act of indiscipline as prescribed in the UPES student bulletin and is punished by the UPES Proctorial board.
25%
hostel
6
nd
For Example:
Order of Merit
Renewal of the scholarship for the subsequent year will be only based on attaining a minimum 8 SGPA /CGPA with no backlog and no disciplinary cases registered or reported against the student.
Scholarship subject to fulfilment of the following conditions and submission of supporting documents:
2
Student Financial Support
Discover the boundless realm of opportunities that scholarships can unlock on your remarkable academic journey at UPES.
the International Level
8
Minimum 80% marks in graduation or
No existing backlog in the exams appeared at UPES.
The upper age limit for UG and PG programs- is 20 and 25 years respectively (On the date of Registration).
Submission of renewed EWS certificate/ Income certificate
50%
Shooting
Scholarship for MBA
GATE Scholarship
Applications Close Date:
75% overall attendance is mandatory.
Maintenance of 75% attendance in the entire semester in all subjects and cumulative
School Games
90.01% - 94.99%
75% - 80%
20% of the tuition fees
Athletics
•    Applications Close Date: To be announced
National Association/
Cricket
60% - 75%
Compliance with all other norms as prescribed by the University from time to time.
Badminton
Scholarship & Aid
Disclaimer
The sibling of the employee will be eligible to get the fee concession for 2 children.
20%
The Scholarship is applicable only on the Tuition Fee and does not apply to any other head like Admission fee, Examination fee, Transport fee, Hostel fee, or any other fee/expanse which may occur from time to time.
Close
International
Who will
The above relaxation is only for one semester.
Candidate should have clearly passed & obtained a minimum of 6.0 SGPA/CGPA score in the last exam. However, in the eventuality of his/her failing to achieve this criterion, the Registrar shall take the decision on a case-to-case basis, which shall be final and binding.
Applicable to all Alumni who graduated from 2019 onwards. For any Alumni who graduated before 2019, the department of alumni relations will present the case to the scholarship committee for the special approval.
Applicable on only a 50% tuition fee waiver for the full duration of the program. Rest all fee components to be charged as per the notification of AY 2024-25.
No Alumni fee is to be charged.
The total number of scholarships available is up to 75 seats. The scholarship will be awarded as 20% on tuition fees of 1st & 2nd semesters only.
The scholarship awarded is for one year and is renewable from year to year, provided the awardees improve/maintain their proficiency in the game concerned.
12th Overall Marks
semester and the benefit of the scholarship will reflect from 4
He/ She should also have a clear record of discipline.
Semester onwards.
4
The scholarship will be awarded in form of a Fee Concession; Fee Discount; Fee Waiver on tuition fees only.
75%
Total number of Scholarships
Chess
Participating at the
With the objective of developing a sports culture within the University, UPES introduces a new scheme of providing scholarships for talented sports persons.
The fee concession will be given for an amount equivalent to 75% of the Semester Fee (Inclusive of Tuition and academic service fees) of the program for the first year. All other components of the fee will be paid directly by the employee.
the scholarship scheme
Number of seats under
•    Applications Start Date: To be announced
Scholarship
However, if any student takes admission in Global Pathway Program and then later on decides to shifts to regular program, the student will not be eligible to get the scholarship based on the Board merit / entry level scholarship.
If the employee resigns from the services, the ward of the employee shall be liable to pay the full fee payable to the University after his/her exit from the University. However, in case the organization asks the employee to leave due to performance/job requirement/fitment in the role, in such cases the scholarship will continue.
Such students must not be getting any kind of financial assistance/support e.g., fellowship/scholarship/fee waiver etc. from any other source public or private.
In 2023-24, the university awarded ₹46 Crore in scholarships to 6,844 students.
The scholarship will be awarded in the range from 10% to 30% on tuition fees of 1st & 2nd semesters only.
Academic Scholarships
Fellowship For M.Tech & M.Des. Programs
Research Grant
CAT score 85 percentile and above or NMAT score >200
Olympic Committee/
35% on
The candidate seeking admission under any of the above categories of sports shall be required to produce the relevant documents of proof of his/her participation and Medal Won. Scholarship Committee will take the final decision regarding the Scholarship.
100%
No disciplinary action initiated/ sanctioned against the student under the student handbook or compliance to norms as prescribed by the University.
25 seats will be reserved for the ward of Armed forces including Paramilitary personnel (Serving and Retired).
year only
Amount Given as Support:
Select Scholarships
The financial support extended by the University is a relaxation of Rs 50,000/- towards their tuition fee per semester till the last qualifying semester.
EWS certificate/ Income Certificate to be submitted which is issued by District Magistrate (DM) /Additional District Magistrate (ADM) / Collector/ Deputy Commissioner/ Additional Deputy Commissioner/ First Class Stipendiary/ Magistrate/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate / Executive Magistrate/ Taluka Magistrate/ Extra Assistant Commissioner.
JEE
85.01% - 90%
No disciplinary action was initiated/ awarded against the student.
80% - 90%
Teaching Assistantship of up to Rs. 3,000/- is available for students pursuing M. Des Program.
Scholarship Renewal Criteria-
Eligibility– Graduation overall marks
Scholarship Committee will reserve the right to increase/decrease/approve/deny the amount of the scholarship.
The University has extended financial support to the students who are unable to pay the tuition fee on account of having loss of any of the earning parents after taking admission at UPES and after submitting the full fees for at least one semester.
3
Type of Scholarships / Freeships
Students admitted to the M. Tech program in the academic session 2024-25 with a valid GATE score of 75 percentile and above will be considered for a scholarship UPTO Rs. 12,400/- per month during their permissible period of registration with the University.
Achievements
With the objective of access to quality education for all UPES is providing scholarships to meritorious students who come from the economically weaker section but with high aspiration, commitment and caliber.
The student should maintain/ improve their academic performance every semester.
The wards will go through the selection process as defined by the University and qualify for admission.
Scholarship Benefits
Passed every semester on the first attempt without any supplementary or improvement exam.
Scholarship will be awarded 20% of tuition fees for the first & second semesters and awarded only if acceptance fees are deposited within timelines (mentioned in the admission offer letter).
Extent of Scholarships
Terms and Conditions/Eligibility Criteria
The fee concession will be given for an amount equivalent to 50% of the Semester Fee (Inclusive of Tuition and Academics Service fee) of the program for the first year. All other components of the fee will be paid directly by the sibling of the employee.
Sthai / Mool / Adhiwas Niwas Praman Patra certificate, along with the admission form.
All regular and confirmed UPES employees (Faculty & Non-Faculty).
100% free ship
Number of Seats
Applicant/student shall not be eligible to apply for any future year/semester scholarship/concession under this category if in any semester applicant/student fails to comply with Renewal Criteria.
All Students
The Scholarship amount will be adjusted against tuition fees. Awarded scholarships can’t be exchanged for cash/ cheque or transferred to any other course, campus, academic year/semester, etc.
1
Scholarship Based On Academic Performance
M.Des PROGRAM:
JEE score, or CUET score and is applicable for the first year only.
Scholarship/ Free ships
Medal holders
Passed every semester at first attempt without any supplementary or improvement exam. If student fails to score minimum of 8.5 SGPA in any semester, the scholarship will be discontinued and can only be renewed in next semester subject to the student meeting the attendance and CGPA criteria.
Eligibility Criteria:
The scholarships will be disbursed at the end of each semester as per the terms and conditions listed below:
Sport / Game
If the employee resigns or is terminated from the services, the ward of the sibling shall be liable to pay the full amount of fee payable to the University post his/her exit from the University.
Common Wealth
National Level
semester and so on. As a result, students will have to pay full fees for 3
All employees on the allied services roll (Including employees on the rolls of HERS/ISPE/M-Power/any other group of company).
There is no renewal as it is applicable for 1st year only.
The scholarship will be awarded up to 30% of tuition fees only if acceptance fee is deposited within the given timelines (as mentioned in the admission offer letter).
If a student scores 80.7% or 80.9% in
Alumni have to meet the notified eligibility criteria for AY 2024 - 25 for the respective programs.
In case of a refund is applied after admissions – the refund policy will be applicable for AY 2024-25.
The scholarship will only be awarded till the pre-final year.
Please note that this communication is without prejudice to any rights of UPES and this communication should not be considered as a waiver of any rights of UPES in the applicants’ favour.
The scholarship under this category shall be given in the first year only and its continuation shall be decided by Scholarship Committee.
Remarks
75% on
Compliance with all other norms as prescribed by the University from time to time
Volleyball
Sports Scholarships
All students who have taken 12th CBSE Board / ICSE Board or any State Board Exam (mentioned under “COBSE”) shall be eligible for consideration for this scholarship. However, this Scholarship shall be awarded only to those students who have complied with below defined Scholarship Criteria for first year and subsequent renewal, if applicable. Scholarship will be available for limited seats only.
National
Income certificate proving that your gross family income is not more than Rs.12 lakh per annum, along with a copy of Income tax return filed/Income Certificate (Govt. authorities) for both the parents.
Notwithstanding anything under this Scholarship scheme, UPES’s Management has sole discretion to edit, modify, change, update, continue or abandon the above-mentioned Scholarship going forward at any given point in time, without any prior written intimation. The Vice-Chancellor will be the final deciding authority for all scholarship decisions as stated in this specific disclaimer.
Employee Sibling Ward Scholarship
Alumni have to go through the admission process of the applied program as per the notified selection process for AY 2024-25.
on complete
It is the responsibility of the applicants to check their eligibility before submitting their applications. In case the applicant is found non-eligible at any stage, his/her submission or scholarship will be disqualified.
All Students will also be eligible to avail a grant up to a sum of Rs. 50,000/- towards outcome-based research as per rules and regulations framed for the purpose by the University.
Football
All such students will have to ensure that they practice regularly / seek expert advice / participate in coaching camps to maintain/improve their standards and performance.
The fee concession will be provided to the wards of employee sibling after meeting the eligibility criteria to the program applied for.
No other scholarship will be offered or clubbed with this scholarship.
The scholarship is awarded based on the Class 12th result,
(Representing the country)
The scholarship will only be provided for the normal duration of the program, e.g., for 8 semesters or 4 years in a 4-year degree program. In case the student is not able to complete the program within the stipulated time and seeks/avails an extension, no scholarship will be offered for this tenure.
The terms and conditions outlined herein (“Terms and Conditions”), shall govern the SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM at “UPES” (erstwhile known as University of Petroleum and Energy Studies”). 

By participating in the scholarship program, the student concerned (User) agrees Who Will Get Scholarship tab.
9
80.01% - 90%
Maintenance of 75% attendance in the entire semester in all subjects and cumulative.
The students applying for relaxation should not have any NC (Not Clear) or Backlog in any semester. However, the scholarship committee can use its discretion can recommend the Vice Chancellor for approval without using this as a precedent for future cases of the same nature, if any.
No acts or omission which results in unlawful behavior, with malafide intention maligning the University brand in digital, print, or social media, promoting, supporting or sharing any content which is against the University brand
Scholarships will be awarded on the basis of academic grades and attendance therefore all such scholarships shall be awarded post-declaration of results of each semester. For example, a scholarship for 3
The employee will be eligible to get the fee concession for 2 children only.
The scholarship will be applicable only if the student continues the sport as a part of the UPES team.
35%
The participation/achievement at the National/International level should not be more than two years from the date of registration
15% of the tuition fees
In the case of an existing student, all the current dues should be cleared before availing the scholarships.
Family income under the EWS category is not more than Rs.8 lakhs per annum from all sources.
The Academic scholarship policy will be applicable to all undergraduate, postgraduate and global pathways programs. The scholarship will be awarded to 10% of the total students enrolled in each of the programs or 1 student whichever is higher. The 10% will be rounded off to the nearest next number. The Scholarship policy w.e.f. the year 2024 based on the meritorious performance of the students in the academic year 2024 - 25 as under:
The decision of the Scholarship Committee shall be final applicants and cannot be challenged.
If a scholarship-selected student chooses to decline the course offer, said student’s scholarship shall become void ab-initio.
Federations/ AIU/ IOA/
Home
In case of tie, the CGPA will be calculated up to third decimal points.
individual sport)
To be announced
>=95%
All students who have applied for admission to UPES MBA courses (regular) except Global Pathway Program (GPP) and have done graduation from any recognized university exam (mentioned under AIU) shall be eligible for consideration for this scholarship. However, this Scholarship shall be awarded only to those students who have complied with below defined Scholarship Criteria for the first year. There is no subsequent renewal. The scholarship will be available for limited seats.
(Gold/Silver/Bronze) at
rd
CUET
Offered Scholarship:
Girls Category
th
Minimum SGPA / CGPA 8.5 in the first Semester and subsequent semesters/ year.
Should not be awarded grade F or improvement in any of the course/papers in any of the semesters.
For continuing 50% of fee concession in the subsequent years, the ward shall ensure he/she is not involved in any disciplinary case and will have to abide with all the rules and regulations of the University.
Alumni have to directly apply online and have to email his/her academic details along with the application number.
Bonafide Uttarakhand Student
Minimum of 75% attendance in the entire semester.
(Gold/Silver/Bronze
7
Basketball
Freeships
The University would verify the documents submitted by the student and conduct personal interviews with the expert panel.
Employee Ward Scholarship
No disciplinary case was registered or reported
Scholarship Renewal Criteria
Eligibility Criteria
In case the applicant is a Uttarakhand Bonafide resident, he/she is eligible for waiver of 30% of tuition fees for entire duration of course (subject to submission of ITR and any other required document every year on / before the date communicated to student through email). Students in Global Pathway Programs are also eligible for Domicile Scholarship.
No acts or omission which results into unlawful behaviour, with malafide intention maligning the University brand in digital, print, or social media, promoting, supporting or sharing any content which is against the University brand.
get a Scholarship?
Organizing Body
New Enrollments
Scholarship Criteria
50% on
Existing Students
Your ambitions need all the support they deserve
Total number of scholarships available is up to 2700 (out of these all girl students who score more than 60% in class 12th, will get scholarships).
15%
Tuition fees
The scholarship is only available for the students who have taken admission in regular programs and not in Global Pathway Programs, in case a student takes admission in regular UG / PG program and later on shifts to Global Pathway programs, the scholarship awarded at the time of admission will be reversed and the change of program will only be permitted post submission of the scholarship amount.
This relaxation is applicable only for the upcoming semester.
No case of indiscipline as per the University records.
New and Existing Students
The Committee reserves the final right to approve an application received from the students.
Minimum academic eligibility for the respective program at the time of admission should be met, as mentioned in the Admission prospectus.
Federation of India
There is no concept of automatic renewal for next semester. The Sponsorship Committee shall decide every semester on a case-to-case basis, subject to the Scholarship Scheme, if prevailing at the relevant time.;
10%
Level of representation
A total number of 51 seats only for the regular program be on a merit basis.
All students who have applied for admission for Undergraduate (UG) programs except Global Pathway Program (GPP) and have taken the 12th CBSE Board / ICSE board or any State Board Exam (mentioned under “COBSE”) shall be eligible for consideration for this scholarship. However, this Scholarship shall be awarded only to those students who have complied with below defined Scholarship Criteria for the first year and subsequent renewal, if applicable. Scholarships will be available for limited seats only.
Minimum CGPA of 8.5.
Terms & Conditions
The scholarship will be awarded as a Fee Concession; Fee Discount; or Fee Waiver on tuition fees only.
class 12
The scholarship can be withdrawn if the student is found involved in any act of indiscipline (within or outside the campus) is not able to clear his / her academic assessments or any other academic requirement as per the university student bulletin.