Photography: You can showcase your photography skills and present pictures / images clicked by you. You could also present any experimentation on digital media – drawing, sketching, and rendering, using digital media, tools and techniques (2 dimensional, 3 dimensional).
UPES was created under an Act of Uttarakhand State Legislature notified vide Government of Uttarakhand Notification No. 830/Higher Education/2003-3(18)/2003 dated September 1, 2003. However, the Governor of Uttarakhand is ‘Visitor’ of the University, and the Principal Secretary, Higher Education, Government of Uttarakhand, is ‘Representative’ of the state government on various Boards of the university.
Operating System: Windows XP/Vista/7/8 Professional Edition (Mandatory) or Mac OS (latest version). Proof of ownership mandatory. Office Productivity: Productivity suite capable of creating and editing Microsoft Office documents such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc. (Microsoft Office Student Edition recommended)
Jaunpur
Admission & Eligibility Criteria
New Delhi
UPES has two campuses in Dehradun. UPES Bidholi campus, known as Energy Acres, has programs offered under the School of Advanced Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Design, and School of Health Sciences & Technology. UPES Kandoli campus, known as Knowledge Acres, has programs offered under the School of Law, School of Business, School of Modern Media and School of Liberal Studies.
017
Bathinda
This has also been clarified by the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s judgment in the case of Bharathidasan University v/s AICTE wherein the Court had ruled that:
Is it mandatory for students to possess a laptop?
Sri Ganganagar
30
034
Integrated
Admissions
Bhilai
Integrated Courses
Muzaffarnagar
067
https://www.upes.ac.in/schools-faculty
What are the things required in Portfolio Presentation round for B.Des and M.Des ?
Programs
Azamgarh
d) The device should be capable of connecting to a wi-fi network and doing Windows Active Directory domain authentication of the user.
024
068
Kurukshetra
030
Bangalore
023
SCHEME OF TEST- ONLINE (2HOURS)
Creative expression – both 2D & 3D
Network interfaces: Wi-fi 802.11g/n; Bluetooth
Admit card for B. Tech. CBT Test –
You can apply online by clicking on
**Centre Based / Online tests will be conducted as per government guidelines.
Yes, placements are done through campus recruitment. The recruiting companies for campus placements follow their standard selection procedures.
Visakhapatnam
038
Kangra
Kashipur
Gorakhpur
012
Are recruitments done through campus placements? Do these companies follow their normal recruitment process or have a specially-designed format for UPES?
054
Scholarship
Thiruvananthapuram
Raipur
Indore
Notes:
CITY CODE
FAQs
028
Bulandshahr
Students applying through offline mode through the OMR form, also follow the process of test date booking and get Admit Card from
Faridabad
Admit cards will be issued to students immediately after successful completion of the test booking process.
Note:
Gurgaon
Portfolio review and interview
Where can we get the faculty details for different schools in UPES?
For M.Des, the Portfolio requirements during interview are given below:
Hyderabad
Chennai
Jorhat
Greater Noida
001
058
Kota
SCHEME OF TEST- CENTRE BASED (3 HOURS)
042
Yamunanagar
Does UPES have a good placement record?
Noida
009
https://www.upes.ac.in/aspiring-students#admissionSection
Bhubaneswar
096
Home
TEST TIMINGS
125
50
Screen size: 9” or higher
Nagpur
Bring any physical model / prototype, i.e., something made out of clay, wood, cardboard, etc.
Almora
Read More
How many exam centers are there for UPESEAT?
Rohtak
025
Jaipur
Dhanbad
Panipat
053
Aligarh
Haldwani
You can view the details of our faculty school/department wise here:
Solan
014
Shimla
Please refer to the program page of your desired course for the eligibility criteria.
b) The device should have legal operating system (OS) software pre-installed as specified below. Proof of ownership of the OS should be with the student and producible on demand throughout the duration of the enrolled program or while the student is present on campus – whichever is earlier. Additionally, the same should be submitted by the student at the time of registration.
081
032
039
Note: UPES reserves the right to conduct UPESEAT II for the absentees of UPESEAT Exam I, before the declaration of results. A common Merit List would be drawn for UPESEAT I and UPESEAT II. Admit Card (to be downloaded from the UPES website)
Lucknow
100
g) The device manufacturer should have at least one authorised service centre or availability of requisite hardware service and support in Dehradun. The student is advised to confirm this before buying to avoid loss of study hours in the event of device malfunction.
DURATION
Chemistry
Patna
35 questions each for PCM
075
Drawing, sketching and rendering by hand using a variety of techniques and media, including colour markers and colour pencils (10-15 pages)
Bareilly
For B.Des the Portfolio requirements during interview are given below:
071
Panchkula
TEST DATES
Pune
Fees
094
086
What admission requirements should applicants meet and how are they shortlisted for the Law test and interview?
Varanasi
Gaya
What is the exam date of various programs offered by UPES? for updated information.
Bhopal
099
Close
e) The device should have capabilities of entering proxy server settings for the browser.
f) While the university will take all reasonable steps to ensure adequate application and OS support for the device, the university will not be liable for any loss of academic hours due to hardware malfunctioning / improper functioning due to incorrect specification of the device.
Note: The last date to receive the filled application (OMR Form/ Online) is TBA.
087
Meerut
Korba
Dehradun
f) The device should have an external keyboard and be able to connect to a remote server using the RDP protocol.
Kolkata
076
084
Applications: Office Productivity suite with capability to create and edit Microsoft office document formats such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
Ajmer
005
079
UPES will allot the test date and city as per the availability for the students who fail to choose the test date and city of their choice.
004
c) The university maintains appropriate access control systems that will prevent a student machine from connecting to the university network should the machine not be following acceptable policies. Specifically, the machine should have a legal, appropriately-patched operating system, and a legal antivirus updated with the latest definitions and patches.
Hoshiarpur
Current Affairs Awareness
Surat
045
061
Bikaner
082
Network interfaces: Wi-fi 802.11g/n; 10/100 Ethernet; Bluetooth
English Language Comprehension
008
Certificates of participation in competitions / any special mention.
Recommended minimum configuration for tablets:
Vijayawada
037
085
090
091
078
044
022
20 questions – English comprehension
Where is the UPES campus located in Dehradun? Does UPES have any campus apart from the ones in Dehradun?
048
Highest CTC increased from 28 LPA in 2021 to 50 LPA in 2022. The Placement percentage has been more than 90% for the last 5 years and the growth has been consistent. Till May 2023, the highest and average package offered to the School of Computer Science students was INR 36 LPA and INR 8.66 LPA, respectively. Further, the highest and average package offered to MBA students stood at INR 27.83 LPA and INR 8.12 LPA, respectively. In addition to this, the highest and average package offered to School of Design students during UPES Dehradun placements 2023 stood at INR 12.50 LPA and INR 7.22 LPA, respectively. The top recruiters of UPES Dehradun in 2023 included Autodesk India, Schlumberger, ONGC, Amazon, Adobe, Deloitte Microsoft, EY, KPMG, PwC, etc.
Sections
https://admission.upes.ac.in/apply
051
033
What is the eligibility for applying for UPES B.Tech programs?
Under the AICTE Act and its subsequent regulations, universities established under a State or Central Act in accordance with Section 2(f) and 3 of the UGC Act, 1956, do not require AICTE approval. However, the universities are only required to maintain AICTE norms and standards and require no prior approval from AICTE for starting technical and professional courses.
093
031
020
049
088
c) The device should be capable of connecting to an external display device through a normal VGA port for the purposes of showing presentations, etc.
Eligibility Criteria
Please visit -
065
Saharanpur
050
e) Microsoft Windows Home Basic/Premium editions will not be acceptable as these do not support connecting to a Windows Domain. The minimum level of operating system should be Windows Professional.
Ambala
b) The university will install a managed antivirus on each laptop/device (as applicable) entering the university network. This is for optimizing bandwidth used during virus definition updates and to ensure the device does not become a security threat affecting other users on the network. This installation is mandatory and the device will not be allowed onto the network without this.
Screen size: 14” or higher
Kanpur
Apply Now
Understanding of material – material behaviour, characteristics
Rishikesh
For updated information on Exam Dates, click here:
092
Navi Mumbai
TBA
Jind
057
Bring your hand drawn sketches / rendering using simple pencils, colour markers / pencils or any other media such as charcoal, natural dyes, etc. These could be of any everyday object, nature, symbolic or experimental ones.
www.upes.ac.in
Processor: Intel Core i3 / equivalent AMD processor or higher
What is the date of examination (UPESEAT)?
Ports: USB 2.0; USB 3.0; VGA; HDMI
“it is not mandatory for a University, created under an Act, to seek & secure prior approval of the AICTE to start a department for imparting a course or program in technical education or a technical institution as an adjunct to the University itself to conduct technical courses of its choice & selection. The Bench also said that the definition of technical institution excludes from its purview a university, and when by definition a university is excluded from a technical institution, to interpret that such a clause or such an expression, wherever the expression technical institution occurs, will include a university will be reading into the Act what is not provided therein”
003
Jalandhar
Jabalpur
Jhansi
010
019
Mathura
Bilaspur
041
Ability to appreciate ‘details’
B. Tech All Streams
h) A student will be responsible for taking care of his/her machine including raising tickets for warranty/AMC support; adequate insurance coverage; and be responsible for its upkeep and maintenance as well as ensuring legal compliance of the system in line with OEM/ISV licensing policies throughout the duration of the program. If there is loss/damage to the device, it will be the responsibility of the student to ensure timely rectification through the authorised service centre in Dehradun. Additionally, relevant paperwork for filing an insurance claim will be the responsibility of the student.
What is the exam date of various programs offered by UPES?
002
Chandigarh
B. Tech (UPESEAT) Test Details
Bharatpur
Ghaziabad
015
Load More
074
Vadodara
Total No. of Questions
097
059
Test date booking process will start from <to be="" announced=""> onwards on
089
Does UPES have a tie-up with any nationalised / private bank for facilitating education loans?
Academic Calendar
Bhagalpur
Kotdwara
055
UPES is sponsored by Hydrocarbons Education & Research Society (HERS) which is registered under the “Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860” (Registration No. S-41894 of 2002). HERS is a not-for-profit society promoted by a group of prominent professionals from the industry.
083
Has UPES been approved by AICTE?
Applicants should have an overall minimum 50% marks at Higher and Senior Secondary levels (Class X and XII). UPES will conduct the UPES Law Studies Aptitude Test (UL-SAT). One can also apply on the basis of CLAT Score / LSAT Percentile or Board Merit.
098
Is UPES a state-funded university?
Mohali
Patiala
080
Karnal
Rae Bareli
Gwalior
Recommended minimum configuration/specification for laptops:
Guwahati
064
Memory: 4 GB or higher
070
Refer Scheme of the Test
Mumbai
046
047
No. of Questions
069
https://www.upes.ac.in/placement/placements-recruiters
in for updated information.
d) The device should be used in conformance with the acceptable IT use policy of the university.
077
066
University reserves the right to increase or decrease test days/dates/number of test cities. Please refer
040
Orai
021
Roorkee
Hisar
Bokaro Steel City
Ludhiana
The university has entered into a formal tie-up with Axis Bank, Oriental Bank of Commerce, State Bank of India, and Credila, to facilitate sanction of education loans. Prospective students can avail of this facility, if desired.
As you start working towards your career goals, our admissions team is here to help. Feel free to use our resources and ask us any questions along the way. We're here for you!
007
Admit cards will be issued to students immediately after the successful completion of the test booking process.
TEST CITY
Keyboard: External (wired or wireless)
UPES is a self-funded university and does not receive any grant or financial assistance from the Uttarakhand State Government. The university is also not entitled to receive any financial assistance or grants from UGC or any other source funded by the Government of India.
026
Mathematics / Biology
Storage: 32 GB or higher
onwards on www.upes.ac.in
What is the pattern of UPESEAT?
35
Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on a first-come-first-serve basis) separately for boys and girls on a triple-sharing basis. Apart from this, there are several private hostels and paying guest accommodations available for students in the vicinity of the campus. UPES does not have any direct or indirect tie-up whatsoever with the private hostels and does not undertake any responsibility in this regard. Parents are advised to verify the data independently before finalising any arrangement with the concerned hostel and sign a written contract with the hostel owners. Parents are also advised against making advance payments without verifying the facilities. They should insist on a written agreement with the hostel owner, which should clearly state the payment modalities.
018
006
013
a) A charge of ₹ 5,000 (Rupees five thousand only) will be payable towards provisioning of appropriate software, internet access charges and IT application support services to the student.
Entrance Test Locations / City Codes (subject to government approvals to conduct the test at centres)
Physics
20
University reserves the right to increase or decrease test days/dates/number of test cities. Please refer to
Moradabad
Kindly refer to the following table for filling up the OMR/ Online Application form. Candidates are cautioned to fill in the City code and shade correctly as the allotment of required Test City will be based on this information only. Candidates need to give both first and second choice as per their city preference in OMR/Online Application form.
Test City
Agra
Apart from the above, you can also bring in creative work done by you.
036
Satna
Singrauli
095
016
Interfaces: Ability to connect USB drives; Ability to connect to external projection device through VGA port
072
043
063
NAME OF PROGRAM
Jodhpur
Rudrapur
Udaipur
As per opted slot
**Centre Based / Online Test will be conducted as per government guidelines.
011
Where are the application forms available?
How to Apply
Operating system: iOS/Android
073
Jamshedpur
Shahjahanpur
Allahabad
052
Muzaffarpur
060
Haridwar
Ranchi
Hard Disk: 350 GB or higher
027
Student applying through offline mode through OMR form, also follow the process of test date booking and to get Admit Card from <to be="" announced=""> onwards on
What are the hostel facilities and infrastructure like at UPES?
What is the syllabus of UPESEAT?
035
029
It is mandatory for each incoming student to be equipped with a tablet or laptop, conforming to the minimum specifications outlined below.
200
Jammu
Ahmedabad
062
Alwar
056