General Awareness: General Knowledge, Current Affairs, Business Scenario
Candidate Guide Document
Refund Policy
(10:00 AM to 7:00 PM)
10 am to 3 pm.
Home
Non-Exam Pathway
Application Process
Board Merit: Minimum 75% marks in class X and XII (Any Stream).
Students are recommended to take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the examination.
Close
Test duration – 1.5 hours
Slot Booking of entrance exam date -
Click here to apply at UPES
Load More
In case of any queries or clarifications, please feel free to reach out to us on our toll-free number
Students who have already applied, are advised to follow the Exam process.
Take a Demo Test:
UPES follows UGC guidelines for refunds.
Exam Process
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII.
Exam Pattern
Here is everything you need to know about BBA and Integrated BBA - MBA, UPESMET-UG examination process for the academic year 2025-26.
Take a Demo Test –
Total No. of Questions
or email
Eligibility Criteria
To Be Announced
30
Admissions
Download the Candidate Guide Document
Enquiry
120
Results Declaration
BBA & BBA+MBA Admissions - UPESMET-UG
Click here to take a Demo Test
Scheme of Test - Online | 1.5 Hours
Students can log in during the given timeframe and begin with the online test. Please note that the timer starts when the student logs in.
The examination Test window will be from
Apply Online:
Actual credentials (passkey) to appear for the exam on the chosen date will be provided to students one day prior to the exam on the registered email ID and mobile number. This should not be confused with the demo link passkey.
It is recommended that students take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the actual examination.
UPESMET UG
BBA and Integrated BBA+MBA | UPESMET-UG 2025
Quantitative: Data Interpretation and Data Sufficiency
UPESMET-UG/ UGAT’25/ CUET’25/ Board Marks
Login credentials for online exam:
Analytical and Logical Reasoning
18001028737
No. of Questions
Mode of Examination – Online test
Click here to take Demo Test
Admission Alerts
Sections
Selection Criteria
Students having valid scores in UGAT & CUET 2025 will be exempted from UPESMET-UG.
enrollments@upes.ac.in
Process Flow
General English: Reading Comprehension, Verbal Reasoning, Verbal Ability
Aspirants are advised to adhere to the following guidelines:
UPESMET UG 2025