Clinical Research Manager
B.Sc. (Food, Nutrition and Dietetics)
with Virohan)
-
Overall Students placed in 2022-23 in UPES*
+91
Disaster management
B.Sc. (H) Economics and
First Name
Sports
Minors
3 world-class auditoriums
B.Sc. Chemistry
B.Sc. Fee Structure
Auditorium
Click Here
Polymer Chemistry
I accept
Chemistry/ Physics
Bio-mimetics
Course Type
B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science)
Please Select Condition
Admissions
Data science
Pure Mathematics
B.Sc. Physics
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
B.Sc. Geology
B.Sc. (Operation Theatre Technician in collaboration
Frequently Asked Questions
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Biostatistician
with Data Science & Economics and Finance:
International level playing fields
What is the eligibility criteria of B.Sc. Course?
Computational Physics
Applied Mathematics
*
Recruiters on Campus in 2022-23 in UPES*
Mathematics or Biology) at Senior
About B.Sc. Courses
To get enrolled in BSc, candidates must complete their 12th through the science stream with PCB/M (Physics, Chemistry, Biology/Mathematics) subjects with 50% marks.
Specialisations
B.Sc. (Medical Lab Technician in collaboration
Finance/Psychology and
Call Me
What is a B.Sc. Course?
B.Sc. Specialisations
B.Sc. (Hons) Mathematics/
Minimum 50% aggregate in PCM/PCB (Physics, Chemistry &
Placements in 2022-23 in UPES*
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
94
Up to 40% Scholarship for selected students
1900
Close
Minimum 50% Marks at Higher and Senior Secondary level
Geo-Informatics
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
B.Sc. stands for Bachelor of Science, and it is a 3-year undergraduate academic degree. The range of the degree varies from scientific to technical subjects. There are multiple specialisations students can opt for like B.Sc majors in chemistry, physics, mathematics etc.
terms & conditions
(X and XII) with Mathematics/ Phys / Chem
Please enter first name
Economics with Data Science
Secured Campus
*Students can finish their 3-year degree with a combination of major and minor(s), or a 4-year Hons. degree with a double major.
B.Sc. (Hons) Geology
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
B.Sc. Career Prospects
Economics
B.Sc. - Microbiology
Select Course
Library
Why study Bachelor of Science Course?
Data Science
School of Health Sciences and Technology
School of Advanced Engineering
Medical Facility
Minimum 50% marks at Higher & Senior Secondary level (X & XII)
B.Sc. (Computer Science)
and Minimum 50% aggregate at Senior Secondary level (12th)
Please Select Course Type
The B.Sc. ( Hons.) offered at UPES is a 4-year undergraduate degree program. This program is offered in three streams of physical sciences: Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics in the
es
B.Sc. (Clinical Research)
FAQs
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
Selection
Behavior/ Economics
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
Food Options
The decision to pursue this degree often depends on individual interests, career goals, and the desire to delve into scientific and analytical fields. B.Sc. opens the door for multiple opportunities in different sectors from IT to healthcare.
Space Engineering
B.Sc. (Microbiology)
B.Sc. courses in India are a gateway to many job opportunities in a variety of sectors like healthcare industry, chemical industry, educational institutes, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology industry and more. UPES University has tied up with some prominent names in the industry like HCL, Hyundai, SAP and others which makes getting placement opportunities easier for students. There are numerous job roles that you can take post B.Sc. such as:
Lab Chemist
with Data Science
Consultant
Safe and Secure buses
School For Life
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
(X and XII) with Mathematics/ Phys /
Please enter mobile number
IoT
Blockchain
Personal Interview
B.Sc. Food, Nutrition & Dietetics
Reclaim engineering
2) Non-Mathematics background students will
B.Sc. Eligibility & Selection Criteria
B.Sc. Food, Nutrition &
Dietetics
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
/Bio/Bio Tech +English as Major Subject
--None--
%
Market Research Analyst
Astronomy & Astrophysics
B.Sc. - Clinical Research
Minimum 50% in 10th & 12th For B.Sc. Economics
B.Sc. Admissions
With State-of-the-art facilities
Minimum 50% marks at Higher & Senior Secondary level (X & XII) &
Please enter last name
B.Sc.
Material Science and Nanotechnology
Sustainability engineering
AI&ML
involves the study of food management, and promotion of health through healthy food and focuses on the relationship between the body and food.
Research Scientist
Researcher
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Astronomy and Astrophysics
Home
Studying a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) course offers a promising and versatile career in different domains like healthcare and medicine, environmental science, biotechnology.
School of Computer Science
with English, Physics, Chemistry and
Email Address
Course Overview
Economics and Finance
B.Sc. Mathematics
Statistics & probability
Merit Scholarships | Early Acceptance Scholarships*
Psychology and Behavior
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
As per exploratory basket of
.
, Food Nutrition and Dietetics, Microbiology, Clinical Research in the
Mathematics or Biology) at Senior Secondary level (XII).
Advanced Labs
What is the career scope after doing B.Sc. Course?
Scientific Assistant
Chem/Bio/Bio Tech +English as Major Subject
633
B.Sc. (Hons.) Liberal Studies
Secondary level (XII).
, and Economics and Finance, Psychology and Behaviour, and Economics with Data Science in the
School of Liberal Studi
1) Math/Eco in 12th will be preferred.
Click here
The program provides a range of contemporary science-based pathways matched to the needs of the higher education, industry, society and the students' aspirations.
, Data Science, Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, and Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in the
undergo Remedial Mathematics module in Semester 1.
Biology/Mathematics are eligible to apply.
Why Study B.Sc.
Core
Quality Control Manager
B.Sc. Scholarships
Other Information
Industrial Chemistry
Last Name
Climate change
B.Sc. Course Overview