The two-day conference, organized in collaboration with Elsevier, University of Dayton, and Providence University, upheld the tradition of excellence established by previous editions, attracting over 3,800 contributors from 47 countries.
Abhishek Chamoli
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner, Vidushi Singh, continues to excel in her sport with remarkable skill and dedication.
Apply Now
500
For three exhilarating weeks, UPES hosted The World Design Challenge
with the expertise needed for a bright tomorrow.
UPES alumni from the 2005-2006 batch, representing top organizations, revisited the campus after years, reminiscing about their journey.
Literature Fest
Faculty
, and
At UPES, our focus is not just on educating students, but also creating leaders of tomorrow. By opening doors to a world class education, we empower our students to confidently shape their own futures.
Capturing the best moments from the Battle of Bands
View All
It was all smiles and sunshine at UPES' 20th convocation ceremony
Get ready to vibe with UPES at the coolest Women's Bike Rally ever!
Have questions? Find the answers to your questions here.
Scholarships
Abhishek Chamoli, a B.Tech student from the UPES School of Computer Science, as he sets new standards with his remarkable achievements!
Convocation
Eligibility and Selection Criteria
Integrated
Admissions
nd
Abhay Kaushik
And More
Know More - Postgraduate Courses
UPES successfully hosted the 2nd edition of Global Game Jam, showcasing enthusiastic participation and exceptional creativity in game development.
Suketu Mehta
Industry Connect
Virasat 2024
News & Events
Specialisations
September 29, 2024
Read more - Downloads
Law Fest
Programs
Vidushi Joshi
Vidhi Utsav left us spellbound with its thought-provoking workshops , captivating performances, and a kaleidoscope of cultural delights.
Postgraduate
+
Eligibility & Fee
Fee Structure
Scholarship & Aid
Close
Student Outcomes
Adapt or Perish - Law Leadership Event
The cornerstone of our unique approach is the right mix of industry learning and its application. Read on to know more about our teaching methods and industry immersions.
Secured multiple offers
International Admissions
Admission Details
A musical tribute created by the students & staff of UPES
Admissions Alerts
April 5 -7, 2024
India leads the world.
Bhumika Joshi
Navansh Jain
Aaj Ki Rani - Women's Bike Rally
Abhay's interest in aerospace led him to UPES where he now studies Aerospace Engineering.
Over 300 UPES Bangalore Chapter alumni reunited for a memorable evening with top industry professionals and entrepreneurs.
22
November 28-29, 2024
From classroom learning to boardroom success, Bhumika Joshi’s journey highlights the impact of education and mentorship.
FAQs
Let's get you ready for your career journey. Find out more about selection and eligibility criteria, application deadlines,
B.Des. Game Design
Feb 26, 2023
Undergraduate
March 27, 2023
ICMLDE 3.0
From Dental Surgery to the exciting world of Business Analytics, and finally landing her dream job at Bain & Company, Medha Mathur's career journey is truly inspiring.
B.Tech - Aerospace Engineering
March 8, 2024
Freshers 2024 was all about creating memories and friendships that will last a lifetime!
Read more - FAQs
Downloads
January 24-26, 2025
Watch Now
Watch as we celebrate a vibrant night of Garba and colorful ethnic outfits during Dholida 2024!
October 15 - 29, 2024
How To Apply
Convocation, a landmark celebration of academic achievements.
Lateral Entry
Shweta Sharma
Homecoming - Alumni Meet
Learn more about the varied courses offered under the Undergraduate, Postgraduate, and Doctoral programs across schools to find the one that matches your ambitions the best.
Your future is calling! Choose from over 80 programs to equip you
June 29, 2024
January 25, 2025
MBA - Batch of 2024, School of Business
80
Having 12 years of experience, Suketu's quest to become a consultant via MBA at UPES.
Alumni Meet - Bangalore Chapter
Freshers 2024
K
Home
Watch now
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner
View all 7 Schools
Students
Dholida 2024
Important Dates
September 28, 2024
Know More - Undergraduate Courses
Medha Mathur
April 05, 2023
Shweta decided to boost her career by pursuing her MBA at UPES. Watch her journey.
Overview
Ukti -
Navansh Jain turned his lifelong love of playing video games by pursuing B.Des. at UPES.
Eligibility Criteria
200
Placed at Bain & Company
The thought leadership event "Adapt or Perish" brought together industry leaders, academicians, and senior law alumni to explore the evolution of legal education in a tech-driven world.
Read More
Read more - Industry Connect
UPES recently concluded its 22
April 13 - 14, 2024
UKTI wasn’t just a literary fest but a reason to celebrate our culture, which is long forgotten in the hustle of the contemporary world.
Vidhi Utsav -
Additional reading material by way of brochures, bulletins, policies, and more is available right here.
15
Know More - Integrated Courses
Global Game Jam
December 21-22, 2024
Collaboration with KPMG
UPES is proud to be associated with Virasat 2024, India’s largest heritage festival in Dehradun, where legendary artists bring traditions to life through their creativity.
Placed at Bain & Co.
Know More