GISMA University of Applied Sciences
University Canada West
Marketing Management
-
Why Study MBA at UPES
+91
MBA Admission
First Name
Specialisation
Sports
3 world-class auditoriums
What is MBA course?
About MBA Courses
Auditorium
MBA Scholarships
or offline at admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-
Operations Management
Click Here
What specialisations can I opt in MBA program?
Students will only submit the self-attested copy of required documents for admission. Students are not supposed to submit any original document.
100
Virginia Commonwealth University
UPES ranks among the Top 15 MBA Institutions in North India and the No. 1 Private Institute in Uttarakhand by Outlook-ICARE India.
I accept
Course Type
30
Please Select Condition
Admissions
Operations Manager
UPES ranks 41st in the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) of MHRD in the Management Category 2024.
Highest CTC in 2022-23*
Metaverse
Business Strategy & Transformation
Prominent Recruiters
Why Study MBA
What is included in MBA course?
Please enter email address
Frequently Asked Questions
MBA (Strategy & Consulting) - KPMG
MBA Eligibility Criteria
International level playing fields
Aviation Enterprise Management
Digital Business
*
How to apply for an MBA program?
MBA
Chief Executive Officer
What documents are required for the admission process?
MBA Admissions
Candidates seeking admission to any of the program must
Web 3.0
Specialisations
MBA (International Business)
Business Process in Supply Chain
Entrepreneurship
Call Me
Does UPES provide placement opportunities?
How many questions does the UPES MBA entrance exam have?
At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields. The learning environment and practical hands-on approach help students forge ahead on their chosen career paths with a positive attitude, the right skill set and practical know-how. Because of the relevant and ‘real world’ education and ‘on-the-job’ exposure, the industry-readiness of UPES students has been one of the key differentiators.
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
Non-Examination Pathways:
Master of Business Administration (MBA) is a 2-year postgraduate course offered in several specialisations under School of Business.
I have an aggregate of more than 50% in my X and XII board exams and in my undergraduate degree. Can I apply for an MBA?
*1+1 (1 Year in UPES Campus + 1 Year in Overseas University.
Close
The UPESMET has a total of 140 questions divided into four sections such as general awareness and English comprehension that comprise of 35 questions each.
Placements in 2022-23*
UPES offers MBA courses in a wide range of domains, from energy management to International business. Depending on the specialisation, the course curriculums and the fee structure vary from course to course. All the courses have been designed with meticulous detail which has led UPES to achieve a ranking of 41 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework or NIRF of the MHRD in the management category in 2024.
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
MBA  (Master of Business Administration)
terms & conditions
Depending on your professional interests and aspirations, you can opt for any administrative or managerial role in your preferred domain. Here is a short list of some common roles available to you as a UPES management graduate.
Web Design and Development
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
Green Energy and Transition to Sustainability
Human Resource
Petroleum Marketing & Business Development
MBA in Metaverse & Web 3.0
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
Does UPES provide scholarships for MBA?
Minimum 50% marks in Class X, XII & Graduation
Logistics Planning / Supply Chain
MBA (Power Management)
Students having a minimum eligible MAT /CMAT 2025 score of 70 percentile will be exempted from the UPES Management Entrance Test and will only be called for Group Discussion and Interview, if qualified. Valid 50 percentile and above score of CAT 2024/ XAT 2025 A score of minimum 400 or above for GMAT, a score of 120 and above in NMAT 2024 / 25 scores will also be accepted.
UPES provides placement assistance to all enrolled students subject to their fulfilling eligibility conditions as prescribed in UPES Placement Regulations. However, the obligation of the University will be only to provide placement assistance and not placement guarantee.
Select Course
Library
What is MBA qualification?
What is the career scope after doing MBA Course?
Medical Facility
Management Analyst
MBA (Financial Management) - EY
18
Please Select Course Type
FAQs
2. Permanent Account Number (all students and parent)
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
Modern workplaces and roles often require excellent management and organisational skills in addition to subject expertise and knowledge. Students need to be well-versed in the fundamentals of business and market operations and strategy formulation and decision-making.
MBA stands for Masters in Business Administration, it is a postgraduate program which typically takes 2 years. It is designed to provide individuals with advanced skills and knowledge in business and management. The MBA program is highly regarded globally and is intended for professionals seeking to enhance their managerial and leadership capabilities.
Transport Facility
Cloud Computing
200,000 Publications
Note:
Food Options
MBA is a postgraduate program, students who wish to enrol on this program must have graduated from a recognised university with a minimum of 50% marks. Students who are currently in the final year of graduation can also apply. Additionally, your marks on national-level tests like CAT or GMAT play an important  role.
Minimum 50% marks in Class X, XII and graduation. Graduation from a recognised university in any stream.
MBA (Business Analytics) - KPMG
MBA (Oil and Gas Management)
Apply Online
MBA (Logistics and Supply Chain Management)
UPES University accepts scores from all the major national level management exams such as CAT or GMAT. It conducts its own entrance management exam or the UPESMET for students who did not appear for any national level management test.
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Load More
MBA program equips students with a strong foundation in business principles and prepares them to become ethical and innovative leaders. There are so many specialisations under MBA like digital business, power management, marketing, and human resource.
Please enter mobile number
University of Queensland
UPES School of Business
Last Date to Apply : February 25, 2025
Corporate Strategy & Innovation Mgmt.
-- None --
--None--
For the admission process, students are required to submit the following documents:
,
%
Cross Cultural Management
What is the admission process for MBA?
A master’s degree in business administration can enable students to familiarise themselves with the works of a business setting. The degree can act as a great career launcher for those with different academic backgrounds seeking a firm standing in the business industry.
Human Resources Manager
MBA Career Prospects
Top 10% Avg. CTC in 2022-23*
Administrative Consultant
With State-of-the-art facilities
Completing an MBA opens up a wide range of career opportunities across various industries. The career scope after doing an MBA is diverse, and it largely depends on your specialization, skills, interests, and prior work experience. Individuals can opt for specialisations like business management and leadership, marketing, finance and so on.
Students placed in 2022-23*
3. Student academic record/personal records, which will be verified at the time of admission through the original documents
Specialization as per Partner University:
Please enter last name
Airline Service Operations
1. Aadhaar Card Number at the time of registration
Deep Learning for Business Applications
MBA (Global Program)*
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
GISMA Business School
The
260
Home
The candidates have to clear UPES’s entrance exam UPESMET or CAT/XAT/GMAT provided they are eligible for the program.
Generative AI for Business
Email Address
MBA (Digital Business)
Course Overview
Power Business & Regulations
Senior Process Manager
can be the correct destination for your post-graduation degree in management and business administration. Read ahead to learn more about the MBA admission criteria and process at UPES.
Is the UPESMET exam mandatory?
MBA Specialisations
What is the eligibility criteria of MBA Course?
Business Consultant
UPES offers 10 different MBA branches which are classified into four management departments.
Eligibility Criteria
Natural Gas Business
Please select Course
UPESMET / National Level Exams/ followed by Personal Interview
Graduation from a recognized university
.
LPA
Advanced Labs
For Hostel Fee Information,
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
Yes. You can apply for an MBA at UPES as per the university eligibility criteria as long as your undergraduate degree is from a recognised university.
How many course specialisations does UPES offer?
What is the eligibility criteria for MBA admission?
International Business Law and Negotiation
Finance Management
Natural Gas &Trading
Click here
Core
MBA Selection Criteria
Depending on the domain of the MBA course specialisation, pursuing your MBA at UPES can open up many employment opportunities in your preferred domain. UPES has a good track record of placement assistance with around 92% placement success last year. The University attracts many high-profile employers like Novartis, Bosch, Infosys, IBM, L&T, and Nestle.
The university has a robust and successful career services department. Its partnerships with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. Several offers have been offered by industry giants, such as Airbus, Boeing, Deloitte USI, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PwC, LTI-Larsen & Toubro InfoTech Ltd, Wipro Limited and many others, affirming their trust in UPES.
Financial Manager
MBA (Aviation Management)
Other Information
MBA Fee Structure
Last Name
MBA Course Overview