only.
UPES website
Apply Now
UPES Courses
Home
No provision of this policy will be relaxed without explicit the specific approval of the Vice-Chancellor.
Machine
Geo Informatics
ADE
Geo-Science
Close
Civil
The number of seats for lateral admission is not fixed, and these are made against the dropouts/seats remaining vacant/students who failed debarred in the first year of the B.Tech. Programs and shall not be more than 10% of the approved program strength for the batch.
For students admitted to the second year (lateral entry), the result of the program, which comprises six semesters, shall be declared based on working out the CGPA as practised at the University currently.
The number of seats will be notified.
Special course
Lateral Entry Policy
Lateral Entry
Admission process
All guidelines, time schedules, call letters, etc., will be notified through the
APE with Gas Spl.
Aeronautical Engg
Applications shall be invited by post/email / online mode.
Choice of discipline/program
Lateral entry into the programs is only for B.Tech programs, and these students shall be admitted in the 3rd semester of the program. They shall normally be required to complete the program they are admitted into in 3 years.
Candidates with diplomas in agriculture engineering will not be eligible to apply for any of the programs.
The basis of the attendance calculation shall be from the commencement date of the classes prescribed by the University's academic calendar. For the first semester/third semester (Lateral Entry) newly admitted students, the same shall be reckoned from the date of his/her registration to the program.
Number of seats
Mechanical
Electronics/Mechanical
General guidelines
Fire Safety
Electrical / Power system
Mechatronics
Civil Engineering
Attendance
Eligibility
The policy is being introduced to provide an opportunity for higher studies to those candidates who have completed their Diploma in Engineering with a good record and to provide more technical manpower by filling up the vacant seats from the first year of various programs.
ASE
Eligibility Criteria
It is proposed to provide for lateral entry into the Graduate Engineering and technology programs of the University with the provisions as detailed below:
Admissions
Personal interview 20%.
Admission into the B.Tech. programs
Electronics
Power to relax
Entry
Eligible Diploma
Candidates shall be called for test-cum-interview session with the weightage as Written 80%.
----
We shall notify the selected individuals through posting on the University's website and by mail.
Result
The principle of compatibility shall govern the admission to any of the B.Tech programs offered at the UPES, viz. a mapping provided in the annexure so that the knowledge gained by the candidate during his Diploma is relevant to the program in which the admission is being sought.
Only those candidates who have obtained a 3-year diploma in any branch of engineering relevant to the program after 10+ (Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination) with a minimum aggregate of 60% marks in science and maths in a single sitting in the qualifying exam for the diploma course, from a recognised State Board of Technical Education & Training.
These students shall be treated at par with those admitted in a 4-year programme for all other purposes.
ASE+AVE
Computer Science
Change of branch
APE -UP Stream
Reservation
The selected students may have to undergo a special course called the Lateral Entry Program, designed to address any deficiencies in courses/communication skills, etc., which may incur a fee.
Once students are selected and complete the admission formalities, UPES will consider them at par with other regular UG students.
Computer Science/IT/Electronics
The students admitted under the lateral program shall not be allowed to change the branch.
Architecture
Course mapping
Petroleum / Chemical
Completion of the program
A student admitted in B.Tech second year under the Lateral Entry Scheme shall be required to complete the programme within a period of a maximum of five academic years from the date of first registration, failing which he/she shall not be allowed to continue to study further for his/her B.Tech Degree.
Chemical
Lateral
As specified by the University policy, reservation norms for different category candidates shall be followed for admission to the second year (Lateral Entry, wherever applicable) in all Undergraduate Engineering Programs.
Material Science with Nano Tech.
Power System
B.Tech
Programmes