Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII and minimum 50% aggregate in PCM/B (Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Biology) in class XII.
Candidate Guide Document
Refund Policy
10 am to 3 pm.
B. Pharm Admissions | UPESPAT 2025
Home
Non-Exam Pathway
Application Process
UPESPAT
Students are recommended to take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the examination.
125
35
Close
Click here to apply at UPES
Load More
In case of any queries or clarifications, please feel free to reach out to us on our toll-free number
Students who have already applied, are advised to follow the Exam process.
Take a Demo Test:
Exam Process
Here is everything you need to know about B.Pharm. admissions, and the UPESPAT examination process for the academic year 2025-26.
Physics
Exam Pattern
Chemistry
Take a Demo Test –
Total No. of Questions
(10:00 am to 7:00 pm
English Language Comprehension
20
or email
Eligibility Criteria
To Be Announced
Admissions
Minimum 50% marks in classes X & XII with Physics, Chemistry, Biology/ Math’s, and English as a major subject in class XII.
Download the Candidate Guide Document
Slot Booking link for entrance test-
Enquiry
Scheme of Test - Online | 2 Hours
Results Declaration
Click here to take a Demo Test
Students can log in during the given timeframe and begin with the online test. Please note that the timer starts when the student logs in.
The examination Test window will be from
UPESPAT / JEE- Mains / Board Merit / NEET / CUET
Apply Online:
Valid percentile in NEET 2025/ Valid percentile in JEE Mains 2025 / Valid percentiles in CUET-UG 2025.
Mathematics / Biology
Test duration – 2 hours
Actual credentials (passkey) to appear for the exam on the chosen date will be provided to students one day prior to the exam on the registered email ID and mobile number. This should not be confused with the demo link passkey.
It is recommended that students take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the actual examination.
B.Pharm. - UPESPAT
)
Login credentials for online exam:
UPESPAT 2025
Board Merit: Minimum 75% marks in classes X and XII and minimum 75% aggregate in PCM/B (Physics, Chemistry and Math’s / Biology) in class XII.
18001028737
No. of Questions
Mode of Examination – Online test
Sections
Admission Alerts
Cut-off Rank/Percentile for all National Level Exam will be declared post exams in AY-2025.
Selection Criteria
enrollments@upes.ac.in
Process Flow
Aspirants are advised to adhere to the following guidelines:
UPES follows UGC guidelines for refunds.