BCA Admissions
Digital Forensics
+91
BCA Fees Structure
For further details, refer to T&C
First Name
Specialisation
Sports
3 world-class auditoriums
Here is the consolidated list of BCA courses offered by the
Auditorium
or offline at admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-
(Bachelor of Computer Applications)
700
What is the placement facility for students?
: Students will only submit the self-attested copies of required documents for admission. Students are not supposed to submit any original document.
Click Here
What is BCA?
I accept
Eligibility
Course Type
Please Select Condition
Admissions
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
For fee information,
Frequently Asked Questions
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
International level playing fields
*
Permanent Account Number (all students and parent)
Candidates seeking admission to any of the program must
I have received an aggregate of 80% in my 10th and 12th board exams. Can I get a scholarship for BCA programme at UPES?
UPES offers distinct BCA specialisations in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, and Data Science, which can enable students to pursue successful careers in the artificial intelligence, data science, cyber security, global technology and fintech sectors. The BCA course specialisations last for 6 semesters, or 3 years. Despite specialised disciplines, the courses feature customised curricula that can help students switch career domains to other technological fields if they wish to do so.
Call Me
Placements in 2023-24*
At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields. The learning environment and practical hands-on approach help students forge ahead on their chosen career paths with a positive attitude, the right skill set and practical know-how. Because of the relevant and ‘real world’ education and ‘on-the-job’ exposure, the industry-readiness of UPES students has been one of the key differentiators.
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
Close
BCA Specialisation
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
Cyber Security and
Bachelor of Computer Application is a 3-year program offered under School of Computer Science.
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
Criteria
Application (BCA)
UPES provides placement assistance to all enrolled students subject to their fulfilling eligibility conditions as prescribed in UPES Placement Regulations. However, the obligation of the University will be only to provide placement assistance and not placement guarantee.
of the main Subject in Class 12th
Select Course
What is the average cost for BCA course?
UPES School of Computer Science
Library
Mathematics/ Computer Science/
Data Science
apply online
Core Program
Student academic record/personal records, which will be verified at the time of admission through the original documents
Why Study BCA
Medical Facility
Bachelor of Computer
Please Select Course Type
FAQs
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
Selection
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
There are academic scholarships for deserving students, domicile scholarships for bonafide Uttarakhand students; freeships under Project ‘Jyoti’ for students from economically weaker sections; and sports scholarships under Project ‘Vijay’.
3
Food Options
BCA students from UPES can venture into different domains such as application architecture, app development, database designing, banking consultancy and database architecture. Some of the interesting career roles in the domain include software consultants, database administrators, computer systems analysts, quality assurance managers and network engineers.
Duration
click here.
BCA  Eligibility & Admission
Can a BCA degree help me get a master’s degree in computer science?
Duration(Years)
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
What is the admission process for BCA program?
Artificial Intelligence &
Load More
Please enter mobile number
3 years
in association with Oracle, a major technological giant. The courses are also accredited by the University Grants Commission of India. Here are further details of the BCA courses at UPES.
BCA
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
--None--
For the admission process, students are required to submit the following documents:
50% marks in class 10th and 12th with Mathematics/
Both BCA courses are offered under the
%
the major Subject in Class XII
The BCA course qualification at UPES can brighten the career prospects for its graduates in a number of IT and computer science disciplines from robotics, artificial intelligence or financial technology or Fintech. In fact, from the previous BCA batches of UPES, more than 630 students were placed with over 190 national and international recruiters with a 100% placement rate.
1950
BCA Scholarships
List of required documents for BCA admission?
Personal Interview/
Personal Interview/ CUET
How to apply for a BCA course?
With State-of-the-art facilities
The BCA courses at UPES have customised curriculums that can help students switch career domains to other technological disciplines if they wish to do so.
Computer Science / Information Technology as one
Please enter last name
Aadhaar Card Number at the time of registration
The BCA course from UPES can also be appropriate for students wishing to continue their technical education with postgraduate degrees in different technological disciplines such as computer science, IT or database administration.
50% marks in class X and XII with
BCA Career Prospects
Note
Recruiters on campus in 2023-24
Information Technology as one of
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Machine Learning
Home
91
What is the eligibility criteria for admission to BCA?
CUET
50% marks in class X and XII with Mathematics / Computer Science / Information Technology as one of the major subjects in Class XII
Email Address
The university has a robust and successful career services department. Its partnerships with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. Several offers have been provided by industry giants such as Airbus, Boeing, Deloitte USI, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PwC, LTI-Larsen & Toubro InfoTech Ltd, Wipro Limited and many others, affirming their trust in UPES.
Course Overview
Why Study BCA at UPES?
Does UPES provide scholarships for BCA?
BCA Course Overview
Eligibility Criteria
Overall Students placed in 2023-24*
Please select Course
Can I switch career domains after completing a BCA degree?
.
Advanced Labs
For Hostel Fee Information,
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
About BCA Courses
Click here
Core
Other Information
Last Name