MCA Scholarships
MCA Eligibility & Admission
Graduates specializing in Cyber Security and Digital Forensics can pursue roles like cyber security analyst, digital forensics investigator, penetration tester, network security engineer, and information security manager. These professionals are instrumental in protecting data, preventing cyber threats, and investigating security breaches.
+91
These MCA specialisations can help students switch career domains to other disciplines if they wish to do so in the future. With UPES receiving the QS I-Gauge E-Lead Certification for online learning, students can rest assured about the quality of education, regardless of the delivery model.
First Name
Specialisation
Sports
3 world-class auditoriums
Yes, UPES has moved its technical interviews for admission online and has introduced online learning for most of its courses. Additionally, it has also initiated many hygiene and safety schemes on its campus. It has also been certified for safety and hygiene by Bureau Veritas, which is a world leader in testing, inspection, and certification services.
Total Fee
Auditorium
What is the placement facility for students?
- Student academic record/personal records, which will be verified at the time of admission through the original documents
Click Here
What is the fee to pursue an MCA course?
or offline at admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-.
Eligibility criteria
Master of Computer Application (MCA)
Eligibility criteria for MCA Admissions
I accept
: Students can explore roles like machine learning engineer, data scientist, AI data analyst or a business intelligence developer.
Course Type
Eligibility
Please Select Condition
50% in 10th, 12th and 50 % in graduation in relevant subject
Admissions
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
50% in 10th, 12th and 50% in graduation in relevant subject
A few interesting job roles for each MCA course specialisation are mentioned below.
Frequently Asked Questions
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
The Master of Computer Application or MCA is a two-year professional post-graduate program under School of Computer Science.
2
International level playing fields
MCA Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Here are the details of each MCA course specialisation.
MCA Data Science
Students will only submit the self-attested copy of required document for admission. Students are not supposed to submit any original document.
*
Candidates seeking admission to any of the program must
The MCA Data Science course offers a comprehensive foundation in the concepts and practices of Data Science, including data structures, algorithms, and statistical analysis. Students will explore essential skills in data visualization, data manipulation, and machine learning algorithms. The course emphasizes practical applications, preparing students to analyze and interpret large datasets in areas such as finance, healthcare, and marketing, enabling them to drive data-driven decisions in real-world scenarios.
What is MCA?
The MCA Cyber Security and Digital Forensics course equips students with essential skills to protect and investigate digital environments. The curriculum covers core concepts such as network security, cryptography, and ethical hacking. Students will also learn advanced techniques in digital forensics, enabling them to trace cyber threats, conduct incident response, and analyze digital evidence. This course prepares students to address real-world cyber challenges, safeguarding data integrity and ensuring secure digital practices across various industries.
Call Me
MCA Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
50% in 10th, 12th and 50% in graduation in relevant subject
Academic Service Fee
98,000
At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields. The learning environment and practical hands-on approach help students forge ahead on their chosen career paths with a positive attitude, the right skill set and practical know-how. Because of the relevant and ‘real world’ education and ‘on-the-job’ exposure, the industry-readiness of UPES students has been one of the key differentiators.
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
94
1900
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
I have a 62% aggregate in my BCA Artificial Intelligence degree. Am I eligible to apply for the MCA program at UPES?
Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics:
UPES provides placement assistance to all enrolled students subject to their fulfilling eligibility conditions as prescribed in UPES Placement Regulations. However, the obligation of the University will be only to provide placement assistance and not placement guarantee.
Select Course
Library
How to apply for an MCA program?
What are the academic prospects open to me after I pursue my MCA from UPES?
Data Science
Core Program
Medical Facility
25,000
School of Computer Science
- Permanent Account Number (all students and parent)
Please Select Course Type
What is the admission process for MCA?
FAQs
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
Selection
SEM 1
Overall Students placed* in 2022-23*
Why Study MCA
Transport Facility
Selection Criteria
200,000 Publications
Note:
Food Options
MCA Course Overview
SEM 2
About MCA Courses
- Aadhaar Card Number at the time of registration
Duration
Apply Online
The innumerable attractive career prospects in the tech space after graduation is one of the primary USPs of an MCA degree from UPES.
Yes. An MCA in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning can get you roles like machine learning engineer, data scientist, AI data analyst or business intelligence developer
Duration(Years)
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Load More
Please enter mobile number
You can get plenty of opportunities to advance your academic prowess once you complete your MCA program from UPES. The course will help you build the technical expertise required for pursuing an M.Tech. or PhD in Computer Science or Artificial Intelligence.
Personal Interview
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
What is the eligibility criteria for admissions to MCA courses?
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
27,000
--None--
For the admission process, students are required to submit the following documents:
%
I am interested in following a career in Artificial Intelligence. Can an MCA course help me with that?
Has UPES taken any measures to safeguard its students considering the present circumstances?
MCA Fee Structure
560
1,06,000
: Students specializing in Data Science can explore roles such as data analyst, machine learning engineer, data engineer, business intelligence analyst, and data architect. These roles involve interpreting complex data, creating predictive models, and helping businesses make data-driven decisions across industries.
With State-of-the-art facilities
List of required documents for MCA Admission?
Does UPES provide scholarships for MCA?
UPES offers different specialisations for MCA courses catering to a wide range of subjects in the technical and financial domains. The duration of all the specialisations is three years or six semesters.
Please enter last name
SEM 4
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
MCA
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Home
MCA Admissions
UPES has a proven track record of providing career placements to 94% of its students. More than 560 companies including Hyundai, Vedanta, Halliburton, and L&T Infotech hire students for different roles.
Email Address
MCA Career Prospects
Course Overview
Placement* in 2022-23*
MCA (Master of Computer Applications)
Eligibility Criteria
SEM 3
Please select Course
.
Advanced Labs
For Hostel Fee Information,
MCA Specialisation
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
Click here
Yes. All students with a minimum aggregate of 50% in their BCA degree with relevant specialisation are eligible to apply for an MCA Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning course at UPES.
The course gives students a broad understanding of the concepts of Artificial Intelligence like Data Structures, Algorithms, and Design Processes. Students will also learn about the applications of these concepts in real-world situations such as Natural Language Processing, Robotics, or Computer Vision.
Core
The university has a robust and successful career services department. Its partnerships with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. Several offers have been offered by industry giants, such as Airbus, Boeing, Deloitte USI, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PwC, LTI-Larsen & Toubro InfoTech Ltd, Wipro Limited and many others, affirming their trust in UPES.
Recruiters in 2022-23
2 Years
Other Information
Last Name