Travel and Ground Handling Operations
Marketing Management
BBA (Oil and Gas Marketing)
Banking and Insurance
The students can pursue successful careers as marketing executives, event and brand managers, financial analysts, and business analysts. The university will also assist in placing students in reputed industries.
+91
Minimum 50% marks in Class X and XII
Digital Marketing
First Name
and Corporate Communications)
Sports
3 world-class auditoriums
Auditorium
Operations Management
BBA Eligibility & Admission
Click Here
100
I accept
Course Type
Please Select Condition
Admissions
Prominent Recruiters
BBA (Analytics and Big Data)
Does UPES provide scholarships for BBA?
Please enter email address
Interested candidates can apply online at
Research and Development Manager
International level playing fields
*
*2 Year in UPES Campus + 1 Year in Overseas University
or offline at the admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-
Integrated B.Com. (Hons.) - MBA
BBA (Digital Business)
Bachelor of Business Administration is an undergraduate degree program that has turned out to be one of the most sought after programs by students across the world. This program has gained such popularity in the past decade that it is slated to overtake the demand for other courses, without showing any signs of slowing down.
Technology Infrastructure Management
Call Me
Are there any training opportunities for freshers?
Human Resource Manager
What is the admission process for BBA?
BBA Admissions
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
About BBA Courses
School of Business Placements in 2022*
Here are a few core subjects which are part of the BBA courses with specialisation offered at UPES:
Business Administration Researcher
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
Do I get to learn about management right from the beginning of the program?
Oil and Gas Operations
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
Human Resource
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
Petroleum Business
Bachelor of Business Administration is a 3-year undergraduate course in business management under the School of Business. The program imparts knowledge and training in professional management and entrepreneurial abilities.
What training and placement facilities are being developed in the university?
Select Course
To be eligible for admission to BBA core and BBA specialisations, candidates need a minimum of 50% marks in Classes X and XII.
Service Operations and Procurement
Library
BBA
Medical Facility
What is BBA?
BBA Scholarships
Please Select Course Type
What are the eligibility criteria for admission to BBA?
FAQs
24x7 team of doctors
BBA (Aviation Management)
BBA (Foreign Trade)
For Fee Information,
Yes, the BBA program helps you develop a management-focused approach from the start of your academic career.
BBA (Events, Public Relations
List of required documents for BBA Admission?
The candidates have to clear UPES’s entrance exam UPESMET-UG, or National-level exams like UGAT/ CUET provided they are eligible for the program.
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
BBA Course Overview
How to apply for a BBA course?
Food Options
Students placed in 2022*
Analytics and Market Research
The program will begin with the commencement of PEP (Personality Enhancement Program) for students to develop a positive outlook and gain several skills necessary for their time at the university. The program also offers pre-placement boot camps for the students for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training for their upcoming placements.
BBA (Bachelor of Business Administration)
Big Data Analytics and Mining
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Foundational knowledge offered by a BBA degree can lead graduates to be employed for roles in business management and sales. By topping up your degree with leadership skills you can also aim for positions such as a production supervisor, business planner or the administrator. BBA graduates are mostly welcomed by companies that are involved in the business of manufacturing, retail, construction, and finance. They are also qualified to apply for jobs at various government agencies.
Logistics Management
Information Systems Manager
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
--None--
Social Media, Marketing and Analytics
%
E-Commerce
UPESMET-UG / Admissions through National Level Tests (Board Merit, UGAT, and CUET)
With State-of-the-art facilities
Please enter last name
Media Management, Marketing Campaigns and Strategic Communications
https://admission.upes.ac.in/apply
BBA Career Prospects
Aviation Service Operations
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Finance Manager
Home
125
SPECIALISATION
Email Address
Here is a list of esteemed job profiles students can attain after successful completion of a Bachelor of Business Administration degree:
Course Overview
BBA Selection Criteria
Integrated (BBA) - (MBA)
Business Consultant
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
For the admission process, candidates have to submit their Aadhaar card number and PAN card number (including their parents’ PAN number) along with their original academic records.
200
Why Study BBA
.
Advanced Labs
For Hostel Fee Information,
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
BBA Fee Structure
What type of jobs will be offered after the BBA?
Our BBA course provides the scope of applying to internships with corporate houses, as well as possible interaction with potential employers.
We lay emphasis on providing both practical and theoretical knowledge to the candidates so that they are well versed with global business concepts and can implement them in real-life situations. A BBA specialisation course lets you have insights into concepts like financial management, marketing, economics, accountancy principles and organizational management.
Finance Management
Click here
BBA Specialisations
Programming for Analytics
International Trade Negotiations
BBA (Logistics Management)
Marketing Manager
Core
Recruiters in 2022*
Other Information
Last Name