Apply Now
+91
M.Des. Eligibility & Admission
All M.Des. courses at UPES are offered by the nationally recognised School of Design which focuses on nurturing design entrepreneurs while encouraging the adoption of the latest technology, design thinking and digital transformation. The courses promote multidisciplinary learning through a mixture of customized coursework and practical projects. Another benefit of the M.Des. courses is the exposure to live classes conducted in partnership with leading industry specialists and designers in India. The
Hand-drawn sketches and drawings showcasing variety of techniques using markers and colour pencils (10-15 sheets)
First Name
Specialisation
Sports
Does UPES provide scholarships for M.Des.?
M.Des.
Why Study M.Des. at UPES School of Design?
3 world-class auditoriums
Interested candidates can apply online by clicking on Apply Now or offline at the admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-.
Auditorium
Click Here
Digital drawings and sketches rendered using digital tools and media (2D and 3D)
100
95
M.Des. graduates can work in a variety of job profiles depending on their specialisation. They can work as an interior designer, visual merchandise designer, product designer and consultants, industrial designers, graphic designers and in various other creative jobs.
I accept
Course Type
13.7
Please Select Condition
Admissions
Interaction Design
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
Exam Pathway – Online UPESDAT (Design Aptitude Test) followed by interview and portfolio presentation
Frequently Asked Questions
* Placement statistics refer to the number of students who have opted for and are eligible for placements
School of Design
Highest CTC offered in School of Design in 2023-24
: UI/UX specialists, UI designers, UX designers, website developers and website design consultants.
International level playing fields
*
Call Me
Why Study M.Des.
Minimum 50% marks in bachelor’s degree in any stream: 10+2+3 years (B.Des./B.Arch./ B.Tech./ BFA graduates will be preferred)
Communication Design:
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
M.Des. Specialisations
M.Des. Scholarships
Close
Non–exam Pathway – National Level Exam (Valid CEED/NID/NIFT score) / UPESDAT followed by Portfolio Presentation & Interview
A M.Des. degree can open up career opportunities across diverse domains that include internet and communication technologies and textiles, visual merchandising, TV production and Animation among other things. An advanced degree in designing can also expose you to an impressive set of transferable skills like logical thinking and analytical prowess that can be useful even if you switch career domains.
About M.Des. Courses
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
For the admission process, candidates have to submit their Aadhaar card number and PAN card number (including their parents’ PAN number) along with their original academic records.
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
What are the eligibility criteria for M.Des. admission?
What is the admission process for M.Des.?
Increasingly, Design is becoming a fundamental need in almost every field, as it propels innovation and development across various domains. Employment opportunities in this sector are rising with time, and the future will see a high demand for designers who possess the skills required for innovative execution and are well-versed in modern design tools and concepts.
What training and placement facilities are being developed in the university?
Select Course
Library
The program will begin with the commencement of PEP (Personality Enhancement program) for students to develop a positive outlook and gain several skills necessary for their time at the university. The university will also assist the students in grabbing the best internship opportunities. The students will also be offered pre-placement boot camp for the students for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training for their upcoming placements.
Medical Facility
Please Select Course Type
FAQs
Minimum 50% marks in classes X and XII.
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
M.Des. Career Prospects
Food Options
Minimum 50% marks in Bachelor’s degree in any stream: 10+2+3 years (B.Des/ B.Arch./ B.Tech/ BFA graduates will be preferred).
Mobility and Vehicle Design
45
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Graphic designers, brand strategists, visual communication specialists, advertising designers, and creative directors.
Last Date to Apply : February 25, 2025
-- None --
--None--
Valid CEED/NID/NIFT score.
What can be presented as a part of work portfolio in the interview round?
Minimum 50% marks at Higher and Senior Secondary Level (X & XII).
M.Des. Admissions
%
Here are some interesting career opportunities for each of the M.Des. specialization offered at UPES in Dehradun, Uttarakhand.
A physical model or prototype of fabric or construction design
M.Des. (Master of Design)
With State-of-the-art facilities
As a part of the personal interview round, you can present your work portfolio in any of the following formats:
Communication Design
Please enter last name
M.Des. Fee Structure
For admission in M.Des. programs, the candidates need to score relevant marks in UPES’s School of Design entrance exam ‘UPESDAT’. The process is then followed by a portfolio presentation and a final interview.
Master of Design or M.Des. is a postgraduate degree program of 2 years that aims to provide students, who have a keen interest in the artistic field, a platform to achieve the pinnacle standard in the field of design.
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
List of required documents for M.Des. admission?
Home
: Product integration planners, product designers, product developers and development consultants.
The Master of Design (M.Des.) program at UPES provides students with the flexibility to work in multi-disciplinary environments. The course will teach you to address contemporary issues independently and creatively, in order to participate in a most stimulating and gratifying career.
Email Address
What type of jobs will be offered after the M.Des.?
Course Overview
School of Design placements in 2023-24*
How to apply for a M.Des. course?
offers four M.Des. courses covering several relevant disciplines in the design world.
Product Design
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
.
LPA
Recruiters in School of Design in 2023-24
Advanced Labs
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
For Hostel Fee Information,
: Automobile designers, car designers, automobile engine consultants and racing car designers
M.Des. Course Overview
Click here
Core
School of Design students placed in 2023-24
What is Master of Design (M.Des.)?
Other Information
Last Name