B.Des. Specialisations
Apply Now
B.Des.
+91
Advanced Labs -
The above eligible students are directly invited to interview and portfolio presentation
First Name
Specialisation
3 world-class auditoriums
How many B.Des. specialisation does UPES offer?
Click Here
100
95
To be eligible for admission to the B.Des. course, candidates need a minimum of 50% marks in Classes X and XII in any stream.
UPES has a record of 90%+ placement and ensures good opportunities for students as it attracts many big corporate houses.
I accept
Course Type
13.7
Please Select Condition
Admissions
Why Study B.Des. at UPES School of Design?
B.Des. Course Overview
Prominent Recruiters
Weaving Consultant
Please enter email address
* Placement statistics refer to the number of students who have opted for and are eligible for placements
Interested candidates can apply online by clicking on Apply Now or offline at the admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-
Highest CTC offered in School of Design in 2023-24
International level playing fields
Followed by an interview and portfolio presentation.
2 Year in UPES Campus + 2 Years in Overseas University.
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII with valid JEE Mains/ CUET/ UCEED/ NID/ NIFT scores.
How to apply for a B.Des. course?
*
What is Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) course?
Studying Bachelor of Design opens up numerous job opportunities for students willing to become professional designers in various fields and sectors like interior design, fashion design, visual merchandise, product design, industrial design etc.
Call Me
Food Options -
Library -
+
Secured Campus -
* For further details, refer to T&C
B.Des. Fee Structure
Does UPES provide placement?
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
There are numerous job profiles that you can pick from depending on personal interests and skill sets. Each comes with a promising future and a lucrative pay package. Interested students can also further enhance their chances of getting a senior job role by pursuing a master's in the same field. Here are some roles that B.Des. degree holders can easily pursue:
Medical Facility -
What training and placement facilities are being developed in the university?
Based on the specialisation that you choose with your UPES B.Des. course, you can explore a plethora of opportunities in sectors such as corporate houses, and media companies or be an entrepreneur with your own fashion house. The university also has a high rate of placement as it has been tied up with big names such as TCS, Infosys Limited, Royal Enfield, Hettich, Siemens Technology Services and many more.
Select Course
The program will begin with the commencement of PEP (Personality Enhancement program) for students to develop a positive outlook and gain several skills necessary for their time at the university. The university will also assist the students in grabbing the best internship opportunities. The students will also be offered pre-placement boot camp for the students for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training for their upcoming placements.
B.DES. (BACHELOR OF DESIGN)
Specialization as per Partner University - Nottingham Trent University
Costume Designer
Please Select Course Type
What type of jobs will be offered after the B.Des.?
Interior and Retail Space Design
FAQs
Textile Designer
24x7 team of doctors
B.Des Admissions
Game Design
200,000 Publications
B.Des. Scholarships
Auditorium -
Mobility and Vehicle Design
45
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Load More
What are the eligibility criteria for admission to B.Des.?
Please enter mobile number
The Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree equips one with design techniques and skills and also the usage of innovative tools useful in this field. The coursework combines the latest tech innovation with integral designing methodologies to help students make the best use of their expertise. The evolution in B.Des. has resulted in new specialisations which are highly advanced such as Game Design, Graphics & Communication Design, Animation & VFX and more.
For admission in the B.Des. program, the candidates need to score relevant marks in UPES’s School of Design entrance exam ‘UPESDAT’.
Candidates can also have a relevant score in national-level exams like Board Merit/NID/ NIFT/ UCEED/ JEE/ CUET. The candidates can also choose the non-exam pathway based on board merit. The process is then followed by a portfolio presentation and a final interview.
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
Graphic Designer
B.Des. Career Prospects
--None--
%
B.Des. Eligibility & Admission
With State-of-the-art facilities
B.Des. (Global Program) 2+2
Please enter last name
Non-Exam Pathway:
Bachelor of Design is a creative 4-year undergraduate design course that aims to place students in the world of design. Here, students learn how to create and implement a design in various domains like graphic designing, interior designing etc.
Graphics & Communication Design
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Animation & VFX
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Home
Fashion Merchandiser
The university boasts of a robust and efficient career services department. It's partnership with industries ensures that the students have adequate exposure and quickly get absorbed into professional roles upon completing their studies. UPES focuses on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals equipped to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
List of required documents for B.Des. admission?
Email Address
Course Overview
School of Design placements in 2023-24*
Product Design
What is the admission process for B.Des. program?
Does UPES provide scholarships for B.Des.?
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
For the admission process, candidates have to submit their Aadhaar card number and PAN card number (including their parents’ PAN number) along with their original academic records.
.
LPA
Recruiters in School of Design in 2023-24
Exam Pathway: Online UPESDAT
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
For Hostel Fee Information,
UPES offers 7 different specialisations in B.Des. courses which are Game Design, Animation & VFX, Graphics & Communication Design, User Experience & Interaction Design, Product Design, Interior & Retail Space Design and Mobility & Vehicle Design.
User Experience and Interaction Design
Board Merit: Minimum 60% marks in class Xth and class XII.
Why Study B.Des.
Click here
Transport Facility -
Minimum 50% marks in class Xth and class XII.
Sports -
B.Des. is a full-time undergraduate degree taught in the field of design. The 4-year B.Des degree course is offered in different types of specialisations. It helps students in understanding the theoretical aspect of design elements and their practical application in numerous fields.
Core
School of Design students placed in 2023-24
About B.Des. Courses
Other Information
Last Name