Enrolment Process
Postgraduate
SMS will be sent on the Registered Number for Entrance Exam / Personal Interviews wherein candidates are required to register on a preferred date and time slot.
After Selection
Apply Now
Downloads
Migration / Transfer Certificate
Home
Student Aadhar Card
How To Apply
Additional Documents in case of Uttarakhand Domicile
NOTE:
Close
Start your application
Qualification Details
Pay the Application fee of Rs. 1750/-
Find out more about how we’ll be in touch and the different responses you might get.
Graduation Marks (Consolidated / All semesters)
And More…
Domicile Certificate / Sthai Niwas Praman Patra of Applicant
Our admission consultants are here to help you through every application step and address your queries.
Post Completion
After Applying?
Post appearing in Entrance Exam or Personal Interview notification will be sent from UPES on registered contact details, candidates can also check results on UPES website.
National Level Exam Score (If any)
Picture yourself at UPES
Read more - FAQ
How to apply ?
The cornerstone of our unique approach is the right mix of industry learning and its application. Read on to know more about our teaching methods and industry immersions.
Plan a Visit
Have questions? Find the answers to your questions here.
Choose your course from 7 schools at UPES
Complete your academic details and submit the form to complete the application.
Eligibility Criteria
Integrated
Admissions
A provisional offer letter will be issued and candidates will be required to pay the acceptance fee in order to reserve/block their seat before the Offer Expiry date.
Step 3
We value the commitment of each individual and thoroughly assess and evaluate each application we receive on an equal basis.
PAN Card of Student and Parents
How to Apply
Call Now
Read more - Industry Connect
UPES will be sending communication regarding further admission process based on selection criteria (refer to UPES website).
12th Marksheet
Fill-in your personal details in the Application form for AY 2025-26
Additional reading material by way of brochures, bulletins, policies, and more is available right here.
Please be careful while typing Email ID & Mobile Number as all communication will be sent on registered contact details. Changes in Email ID & Mobile Number are not allowed.
Step 1
Talk to our admission counsellor
Step 4
FAQs
Choose your course from School of Business at UPES
You’ve submitted your application and now you’re wondering about, what happens next
Industry Connect
Undergraduate
Choose your course
10th Marksheet
Pay your application fee
Family Income Proof: Parents’ ITR of the current year (Family Income should be less than 12LPA to avail the benefit)
Step 2
What Documents Do I Need To Submit?
Documents Required
Read more - Downloads
Submit your application