Step-by-step guide link -
For whatever the odds, UPES will continue to stand by you, help you navigate the uncharted territory and assist you in making the right career choice.
General Awareness: General Knowledge, Current Affairs, Business Scenario
Candidate Guide Document
Take a Demo Test. Students are recommended to take a demo test to practice and resolve queries before the examination.
Refund Policy
starting the application process early
Graduation from a recognized University.
Non-Examination Pathways:
Home
Personal Interviews are to be conducted after the exam and respective slot bookings.
Application Process
Non-Exam Pathway
Click here to take a demo test.
Download Candidate Guide Document
35
Close
It is recommended that students take a demo test in order to gain practice and resolve any queries before the actual examination.
Apply online
140
(10:00 AM to 7:00 PM) or email
Students having a minimum MAT/CMAT 2025 score of 70 Percentile will be exempted from UPES Management Entrance Test and only be called for an online Interview if qualified.
Load More
Exam Slot Booking Link-
In case of any queries or clarifications, please feel free to reach out to us on our toll-free number
Mode of Examination – Online
Students who have already applied, are advised to follow the Exam process.
Personal Interviews to follow exam.
Exam Process
Click Here
Exam Pattern
Click here to book your slot
Minimum 50% marks in Class X, XII and Graduation.
Take a Demo Test –
MBA Admissions through National Level Tests**
Total No. of Questions
enrollments@upes.ac.in.
Students having a minimum eligible MAT /CMAT 2025 score of 70 percentile will be exempted from the UPES Management Entrance Test and will only be called for Group Discussion and Interview, if qualified. Valid 50 percentile and above score of CAT 2024/ XAT 2025 A score of minimum 400 or above for GMAT, a score of 120 and above in NMAT 2024 / 25 scores will also be accepted.
Eligibility Criteria
10 am to 2 pm.
We understand that the current situation and the uncertainty about the future can be overwhelming. However, despite these challenges, you can still future-proof your career with one simple step:
To Be Announced
Admissions
MBA Admissions - UPESMET
Valid 50 percentile and an above score of CAT 2024/XAT 2025, a score of minimum 400 or above for GMAT, and a score of 120 and above in NMAT 2024/ 25 scores will also be accepted.
Enquiry
UPESMET/ National Level Exams followed by Personal Interview
MBA Admissions 2025 | UPESMET
Students can log in during the given timeframe and begin with the online test. The timer starts when the student log in.
Scheme of Test - Online | 2 Hours
(
The examination Test window will be from
Login credentials for online exam. Actual credentials (passkey) to appear for the exam on the chosen date will be provided to students on their registered email ID and mobile number one day before the exam. This should not be confused with the demo link passkey.
UPESMET 2025
Result Declaration
Test duration – 2 hours
Click here
Here is everything you need to know about MBA, UPESMET examination process for the AY 2025-26.
)
Analytical and Logical Reasoning
Quantitative: Data Interpretation and Data Sufficiency
MBA Admissions
18001028737
No. of Questions
Sections
Admission Alerts
We follow UGC guidelines for refunds.
. Taking this proactive approach will help you navigate every step of your academic journey with ease.
Selection Criteria
Process Flow
General English: Reading Comprehension, Verbal Reasoning, Verbal Ability
Aspirants are advised to adhere to the following guidelines: