Language Comprehension
Candidate Guide Document
Refund Policy
(10:00 AM to 7:00 PM)
10 am to 3 pm.
Legal General Knowledge
150
Home
Non-Exam Pathway
Application Process
Students are recommended to take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the examination.
LL.B. Admissions 2025 | ULSAT
Close
Click here to apply at UPES
Apply Now:
Load More
Take a Demo Test -
ULSAT 2025
Login Credentials for Online Exam:
Students who have already applied, are advised to follow the Exam process.
For BA LL.B. (Hons.)/ BBA LL.B. (Hons.) - Candidates with minimum 50% marks in class X & XII and CLAT AIR ranking up to 15000 / L-SAT India Percentile of 60 percentile or above will be exempted from appearing in ULSAT.
Take a Demo Test:
Exam Process
Here is everything you need to know about LLB-5-year duration admissions. ULSAT examination process for the academic year 2025-26.
Quantitative & Numerical Ability
In case of any queries or clarifications, please feel free to reach out to us on our toll-free number
Board Merit
Exam Pattern
ULSAT/ CLAT/ Board Marks/ CUET
Total No. of Questions
or email
Eligibility Criteria
To Be Announced
30
Slot Booking Link -
Admissions
LL.B. - 5 years - ULSAT
.
Download the Candidate Guide Document
Enquiry
Scheme of Test - Online | 2 Hours
Results Declaration
Legal Aptitude
Click here to take a Demo Test
For BA LL.B. (Hons.)/ BBA LL.B. (Hons.) - Candidates with 75% marks in class X and XII with the main five subjects (English as one of the compulsory subjects) are exempted from ULSAT.
Logical Reasoning
Students can log in during the given timeframe and begin with the online test. Please note that the timer starts when the student logs in.
Admissions through ULSAT Entrance Test
The examination Test window will be from
Test duration – 2 hours
Actual credentials (passkey) to appear for the exam on the chosen date will be provided to students one day prior to the exam on the registered email ID and mobile number. This should not be confused with the demo link passkey.
It is recommended that students take a demo test to gain practice and resolve any queries before the actual examination.
CLAT Merit / L-SAT India Merit/ CUET
Up to 20% of seats shall be filled through the Board Merit/ CLAT AIR/ UL-SAT India category. In case, any seat remains vacant UPES has the right to fill such seats through ULSAT.
18001028737
No. of Questions
ULSAT
Mode of Examination – Online test
Sections
Admission Alerts
Minimum 50% marks in class X & XII.
Selection Criteria
Click Here to take a Demo Test
enrollments@upes.ac.in
Process Flow
Aspirants are advised to adhere to the following guidelines:
UPES follows UGC guidelines for refunds.
To be announced.