Overall Students placed in 2022-23 in UPES*
+91
Minimum 50% marks in Class X and XII
What is B.A. Course?
First Name
- Digital Content Creation: Videos
Sports
Minors
3 world-class auditoriums
How many BA course programs does UPES offer?
BA Admissions
Auditorium
or offline at admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-
What is the placement facility for students?
- Digital Publishing/Website Management
Click Here
Content writers, Editors in media agencies, digital marketers, public relation managers, content strategists, corporate communication specialists, and technical writers.
I accept
Course Type
Please Select Condition
List of required documents for BA Admission?
Admissions
The venues for the personal interviews can be selected from a common list by the applicants as per their preferences. The selected candidates in the personal interview round are notified and invited to take admission in a BA at UPES.
BA
Prominent Recruiters
BA  Course Overview
Please enter email address
Frequently Asked Questions
BA Eligibility & Admission
BA Selection Criteria
International level playing fields
- Digital Marketing
Students will only submit the self-attested copy of required document for admission. Students are not supposed to submit any original document.
*
Recruiters on Campus in 2022-23 in UPES*
Candidates seeking admission to any of the program must
What is the admission process for BA?
UPES also partners with leading bigwigs from the media and humanities domains to provide additional exposure and learning opportunities to the students. This strong industry connection is one of the reasons all BA courses at UPES are accredited by prominent bodies, including the National Board of Accreditation (NBA), University Grants Commission (UGC), Association of Indian Universities, and the International Association of Universities.
Students gain practical experience and problem-solving skills that make them suitable for roles in the private sector, industry, policy-based government, and non-governmental think tanks.
BA Programs
Call Me
- Student academic record/personal records, which will be verified at the time of admission through the original documents.
BA (H) History:
BA Fee Structure
Placements in 2022-23 in UPES*
At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields. The learning environment and practical hands-on approach help students forge ahead on their chosen career paths with a positive attitude, the right skill set and practical know-how. Because of the relevant and ‘real world’ education and ‘on-the-job’ exposure, the industry-readiness of UPES students has been one of the key differentiators.
The admission process for enrolling in BA courses at UPES is rather simple. Interested applicants need to fill an application form online and submit it along with their photographs. The applications are scanned meticulously, and the shortlisted candidates are invited for a personal interview round.
What is the fee structure for BA at UPES?
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
94
1900
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
About BA Courses
What are the career prospects of BA in advertising and digital marketing?
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
After completing a BA in advertising and digital marketing, UPES graduates can seek employment with all the major digital marketing and advertising agencies in the country. They can also move to the production of commercial advertisements and influencer marketing.
UPES provides placement assistance to all enrolled students subject to their fulfilling eligibility conditions as prescribed in UPES Placement Regulations. However, the obligation of the University will be only to provide placement assistance and not placement guarantee.
Senior Media Journalists, Newsreaders, Newspaper Editors, Field Journalists and Story Advisors for a news channel.
Select Course
The career scope after completing a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) course is diverse and offers a wide range of opportunities across various industries. B.A. graduates develop valuable skills such as critical thinking, communication, research, and analytical abilities, making them adaptable to different professional settings. Graduates can opt for career options like Journalism, marketing, content writer or editor, and civil servants.
Library
BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)
- Social Media
BA (Hons.) English
BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital)
Medical Facility
B.A. stands for Bachelor of Arts, an undergraduate typically spanning up to 3 years. There are multiple specialisations in this degree under the stream of humanities, arts, social sciences, linguistics, and cultural sciences.
Brand consultants for OTT companies like Jio-Hotstar, VOOT, Netflix, Amazon Prime and others, TV/Film producers, online publication managers, digital media managers, and digital marketing heads.
Please Select Course Type
- Search Engine Optimisation
FAQs
Studying a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) course can offer a diverse and enriching educational experience, providing students with a broad foundation in the humanities and social sciences. It helps you gain communication skill and global awareness. B.A. offers you flexibility and adaptability which can help you prepare for a range of careers.
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
A Bachelor of Arts (BA) in India can pave the way for excellent employment opportunities across various fields in humanities and art domains such as journalism, media studies and much more. Here is a list of some of the most promising career paths available for graduates with individual BA degrees from UPES Dehradun.
BA Digital and Mass Media:
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
Note:
Food Options
BA (H) Political Science:
Here is the consolidated list of all the BA courses offered by the UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media
Apply Online
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
- Permanent Account Number (all students and parent).
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Personal Interview
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
--None--
For the admission process, students are required to submit the following documents:
BA Scholarships
%
560
All BA programs at UPES are offered through the
Personal Interview/ CUET
How to apply for an BA program?
BA (Hons.) History
With State-of-the-art facilities
What is the eligibility criteria of B.A. Course?
Please enter last name
BA Journalism and Mass Communication:
Why study Bachelor of Arts Course?
Does UPES provide scholarships for BA?
BA (H) English:
The curriculum of the courses is thoughtfully crafted to provide students with a comprehensive education, allowing them to choose from various majors across multiple disciplines.
Why Study BA
The eligibility criteria for a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) course can vary depending on the university, and specific program requirements. However, the most common eligibility criteria that is generally applicable to B.A. programs is to complete 10+2 with a minimum of 50% marks.
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Choosing a broad curriculum-based bachelor’s degree such as a Bachelor of Arts can be a good idea for those who want to establish themselves as thought leaders in different fields. Moreover, the wide diversity of subjects included in the curriculum of a BA degree can prepare you for a wide range of domains and can allow you to switch seamlessly between them if you wish.
BA (Hons.) Political Science
UPES offers a wide range of Bachelor of Arts (BA) courses in various modern and conventional disciplines, such as journalism. These BA programs are designed to be completed in 6 semesters over a span of 3 years.
Home
BA Admission Process at UPES
Pursuing a Bachelor of Arts degree from UPES can be a great way to start your college education and eventually pursue an interesting career in the arts. Apart from an excellent faculty and state-of-the-art infrastructure, UPES University is also the first Indian university to be awarded the QS Five Stars Global Rating for employability in 2020.
Email Address
Course Overview
- Digital Content Creation: Audio/Podcasts
Eligibility Criteria
Strategic Communications
Please select Course
.
BA Career Prospects
- Media Management, Public Policy and
Advanced Labs
BA (Bachelor of Arts)
- Aadhaar Card Number at the time of registration.
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
For Hostel Fee Information,
Students gain practical experience and problem-solving skills that make them suitable for roles in research-driven public and private sector organizations, including museums, galleries, journalism, policy think tanks, and content creation for biopics and historical OTT platforms.
UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media offers 5 BA programs. Here is the consolidated list:
Click here
Core
The university has a robust and successful career services department. Its partnerships with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. Several offers have been offered by industry giants, such as Airbus, Boeing, Deloitte USI, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PwC, LTI-Larsen & Toubro InfoTech Ltd, Wipro Limited and many others, affirming their trust in UPES.
What is the career scope after doing B.A. Course?
Other Information
Last Name