- Internet of Things
- Artificial Intelligence
Bachelor of Arts degree
Overall Students placed in 2022-23 in UPES*
+91
First Name
- Digital Content Creation: Videos
Sports
Minors
3 world-class auditoriums
Auditorium
- Digital Publishing/Website Management
Click Here
MA Career Prospects
Scholarships
I accept
Course Type
Please Select Condition
Admissions
MA Admissions
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
- Privacy and Security
International level playing fields
- Digital Marketing
*
Recruiters on Campus in 2022-23 in UPES*
MA Selection Criteria
Communication (Digital)
Media (Broadcasting)
Call Me
- Media Management, Public Policy and Strategic Communications
Placements in 2022-23 in UPES*
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
94
1900
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
- Environment Science
Select Course
Library
MA Course Overview
- Social Media
Digital and Mass
Medical Facility
Please Select Course Type
- Search Engine Optimisation
24x7 team of doctors
I. Confirmed Minors available to students of School of Modern Media outside of their area of specialisation
For Fee Information,
MA Eligibility Criteria
Minimum 50% marks in class X, XII and Graduation (with any stream).
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
Food Options
Digital Director (MA Advertising & Digital Marketing)
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
- Business Management
Please enter mobile number
Master of Arts is a post-graduate degree that aims at providing in-depth knowledge of the chosen field. The two-year duration course is highly popular and comes with a variety of specialisation to select from. Students who have completed their
Personal Interview
Journalism and Mass
MA Careers & Placements
- Data Science
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
often opt for higher studies and pursue a Master of Arts degree to enhance their understanding of a domain and gain better career prospects.
--None--
I. Indicative Minors available to students from other Schools outside of their area of specialisation
%
The degree helps in exploring many different areas of interest and consolidates strong expertise, making you eligible for higher-level job roles.
Why Study MA
- Start Your Startup
560
With State-of-the-art facilities
Please enter last name
- Public Health
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Content Manager (MA Advertising & Digital Marketing)
Home
- School for Life exploratory courses
Email Address
MA
- Digital Content Creation: Audio/Podcasts
MA (Master of Arts)
MA Fee Structure
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
.
Advanced Labs
About MA Specialisation
Depending upon the specialisation that you opt for with your M.A. degree, you can be in a comfortable position to enjoy various job roles in many different sectors. The expertise gained would ensure that you carry out your functions efficiently while making you equipped for senior roles as well. Master of Arts from UPES added to your resume will make you stand out to the employers and help you get jobs in both private and public sector as associates, executives, consultants and analysts.
Click here
About MA Courses
Careers & Placements
Course
The job profile for Master of Arts degree varies depending upon the specialisation but they all have few features in common such as a prominent role, lucrative pay package and long term stability. Here are some of the diverse roles that you can go for based on your field:
Other Information
Last Name