+91
Intellectual Property Rights
First Name
A Bachelor of Legislative Law (LL.B.) refers to a field of legal studies that deals with issues and conflicts related to society and morality. Students pursuing this course will gain essential and crucial knowledge about the law, which can be applied in the judiciary, legislative and executive institutions, bureaucracy, civil society, as well as the military and the police.
Specialisation
Minors
Banking & Insolvency laws
Sports
3 world-class auditoriums
Highest CTC in 2023-24, in School of Law
Auditorium
Recruiters on campus in 2023-24, in School of Law
Board Merit - Candidates with 75% marks in the 10th and 12th main five subjects (English as one of the compulsory subjects) are exempted from ULSAT.
Click Here
For admission to LL.B. programs, candidates must score the required marks in UPES’s School of Law entrance exam, ULSAT. Alternatively, candidates can qualify with a valid score in CLAT or LSAT-India.
100
Paralegal
I accept
Course Type
Please Select Condition
16.2
Admissions
LL.B. Admissions
Do students having a merit rank CLAT/ LSAT India, need to appear for Group Discussion and Personal Interview?
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
175
International level playing fields
What is the scope after doing LL.B. Course?
What are the eligibility criteria for admission to LL.B.?
*
Additionally, students will be offered a pre-placement boot camp for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training in preparation for their upcoming placements.
How many years is LL.B. after 12th?
Legal Advisor
Taxation Law
or offline at the admission office by paying the application form fee of Rs. 1750/-
- Start your startup
Call Me
- Business analytics
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
LL.B.- 3 Year *
- Digital marketing
Corporate Law
LL.B. Career Prospects
Here are a few job positions that you can apply for with an LL.B. degree in hand:
Legal Manager
Candidates having CLAT rank LSAT percentile (To Be Announced) need not appear for the Group Discussion and Personal Interviews.
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
If you wish to pursue a career in law immediately after completing your school education, you can opt for a BA LL.B. or BBA LL.B. It is a 5-year integrated degree that provides students with a comprehensive understanding of both the humanities subjects offered in the BA or BBA program and the legal principles and practices covered in the LL.B. program.
Legum Baccalaureus
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
What training and placement facilities are being developed in the university?
Select Course
Does UPES provide scholarships for  LL.B.?
Library
Interested Candidates can apply online at
- Artificial intelligence
Medical Facility
About LL.B. Courses
(Bachelor of Legislative Law)
Please Select Course Type
LL.B. Scholarships
FAQs
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
What is LL.B. course?
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
Can I apply for the LL.B. entrance exam if my result for class 12 is not declared?
Food Options
International Economic Law
Up to 20% of seats shall be filled through the Board Merit/ CLAT AIR Category. In case, any seat remaining vacant UPES has the right to fill such seats through ULSAT.
BA LL.B (Hons.)
in Latin, which translates to "Bachelor of Laws" in English. It is an undergraduate academic degree awarded to students who have completed their legal education and training in the field of law. The LL.B. course is the first step towards becoming a legal professional.
Disruptive Technologies Law
Examination Pathway admissions through ULSAT (UPES Legal Studies Aptitude Test)
Reporter
- Digital transformation
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Constitutional Law
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Teacher or Lecturer
To be eligible for admission to BA LL.B. (Hons.) or BBA LL.B.(Hons.), candidates need a minimum of 50% marks in class Xth and XIIth.
Legal Services Chief
-- None --
Examination Pathway:
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
LL.B. Eligibility & Admission
Criminal Law
How to Apply for a LL.B. course?
--None--
Yes, you are allowed to take the LL.B. entrance exam provisionally, but you must submit proof of your secondary examination qualification at the time of counselling.
Public Prosecutor
Advocate
What type of jobs will be offered after the  LL.B.?
The program will begin with the commencement of the PEP (Personality Enhancement Program) for students to develop a positive outlook and acquire several skills necessary for their time at the university. The university will also assist students in securing the best internship opportunities.
CLAT Merit
BBA LL.B (Hons.)
Industrial Relations Law and the Constitution
The student need to meet the eligibility of minimum 50% marks in class X and XII.
Non-Examination Pathway:
With State-of-the-art facilities
*Placement statistics refer to the number of students who opted for and are eligible for placements.
- Family Business and Entrepreneurship
Please enter last name
After completing the 5-year LL.B. (Hons.) program in India, graduates can pursue a variety of employment opportunities. As advocates or legal consultants, they can practise law in various fields, including corporate law, criminal law, taxation law, intellectual property law, and environmental law. Graduates can also work in corporate legal departments, government agencies, and law firms as experts or advisers on legal matters.
https://admission.upes.ac.in/apply
After completing their LL.B., students can have a rewarding career as legal advisers in various private, corporate, and law firms. Students can serve as law officers, legal associates, legal expert advisers, and litigators in reputable industries.
Court representative
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
LL.B. stands for
Home
- Operations/ Project Management
Energy & Environmental Law
Email Address
Course Overview
- Financial Analysis and Services
What is the admission process for LL.B. 5-years program?
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
List of required documents for LL.B. Admission?
.
LPA
For the admission process, candidates must submit their Aadhaar card number and PAN card number (including their parents’ PAN card number) along with their original academic records.
Advanced Labs
Why Study LL.B.
Is the hostel facility provided by the university?
For Hostel Fee Information,
- International Business
LL.B. Course Overview
Students placed in 2023-24, in School of Law*
Click here
LL.B. Specialisations
Why Study LL.B. at UPES?
LL.B.
Core
LL.B. Fee Structure
Students can find a plethora of openings after qualifying for an LL.B. degree. One can start with a pupillage or trainee job at legal centres or part-time jobs in court in the preferred area of specialisation. Also, students can explore the scope of vocations under the supervision of a specialist or an advocate, accessible in law firms. Earning such work experience, right after graduation helps in the long run. Acquiring a Law degree from the UPES can be your beginning to a great career in the field of law.
Other Information
Last Name