What career options are available after B.Com. course?
The eligibility criteria for admission in B.Com. courses include an aggregate of 50% in 10th and 12th in any of the stream- arts, commerce or science.
Fill Application Form
Banking and Insurance
+91
Does UPES offer any specialisation under B.Com. degree?
First Name
Specialisation
Sports
Minors
3 world-class auditoriums
UPES offers following specialisations under B.Com.
B.Com. Specialisation
Auditorium
Click Here
I accept
Course Type
B.Com. Career Prospects
Please Select Condition
B.Com. Selection Criteria
Admissions
B.Com. graduates are hired by many different sectors in India for a variety of job roles. Their excellent understanding of the business world along with a keen insight into finance and economics makes them suitable for various prolific profiles. Though, these positions also depend upon specific B.Com. specialisation taken by the candidate. Here are some promising career roles that come with UPES degree:
B.Com. (Hons.)- Jr Accountant, Account Executive, Business Executive, Financial Analyst, Business Consultant, Accounts Manager and Financial Consultant
Screening of Application
Prominent Recruiters
Please enter email address
Frequently Asked Questions
International level playing fields
Shortlisted student gets an invite for Personal Interview
*
- Start your startup
Bachelor of Commerce is a three-year undergraduate course with commerce and finance as core subjects. At UPES, there are different kinds of specialisation in B.Com. that you can opt for- B.Com. (Hons.), B.Com. (Hons.) Banking, Insurance & Management etc. The course has a total of 6 semesters with a broad set of curriculum with an emphasis on company law, financial accounting, economics, auditing, business management, and more such subjects. UPES offers an AI (Artificial intelligence) and ML (Machine learning) experience to students that further helps them to develop managerial skills with adequate technological knowledge. The popular course is suited for anyone who wants to make a career in commerce, accounting, finance, banking and insurance. UGC (University Grants Commission) recognized degrees by UPES help you stabilize yourself professionally in a career of your choice.
B.Com. Scholarships
B.Com. Fee Structure
Call Me
- Business analytics
B.Com. (Bachelor of Commerce)
+
* For further details, refer to T&C
94
1900
- Digital marketing
Close
Experience Our Beautiful Campus
What is the eligibility criteria for admission to B.Com. courses?
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Secured Campus
- International business
Life At UPES
Mobile Number
Why Study B.Com.
About B.Com. Courses
Select Course
Library
B.Com. Admissions
- Artificial intelligence
B.Com. (Hons)
Medical Facility
The B.Com. course is a three year undergraduate program divided into a total of 6 semesters.
Please Select Course Type
FAQs
24x7 team of doctors
For Fee Information,
Transport Facility
200,000 Publications
Food Options
B.Com. Eligibility & Admission
There are many career options available after B.Com. in the field of business such as Business Executive, Account Executive, Personal Finance Consultant and many job roles.
- Digital transformation
Safe and Secure buses
Enquiry Form
Multi cuisine food options
Please enter mobile number
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
--None--
-School for Life- Exploratory courses
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII with Science, Commerce or Arts students
%
E-Commerce
560
B.Com.
Why Study  B.com.
With State-of-the-art facilities
Students placed in 2022-23*
- Family Business and Entrepreneurship
Please enter last name
Bachelor of commerce program is a gateway to careers in many domains though it is a must for those who wish to pursue a future in commerce stream. Students who wish to take up Chartered Accountancy (CA) and Company Secretaryship (CS) in the future can make a strong foundation with bachelor degree in commerce. The course offers specific skill sets pertaining to a managerial and entrepreneurial role that can be applied to various job profiles. Students are also equipped with knowledge on important concepts such as economic policies, accounting principles and more that play a relevant part in the business world.
Round-the-clock monitoring by guards and CCTV
Home
What is the duration of UPES B.Com. course?
- Operations/ Project Management
Integrated (B.Com. (Hons)) - (MBA)
- Minor in any specialisation offered by School of Business
Email Address
Here is a list of esteemed job profiles students can attain after successful completion of a Bachelor of Business Administration degree:
Course Overview
Personal Interview / CUET
- Financial Analysis and Services
Admission Process
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
.
Advanced Labs
B.Com. Course Overview
Click here
Core
B.Com. (Hons.) Banking, Insurance & Management- Junior Analyst, Tax Accountant, Account Executive, Finance Officer, Sales Analyst, Economist
Recruiters in 2022-23
Other Information
Last Name