Rouzbeh Abbassi
Associate Professor & Director of Research, School of Engineering,Macquarie University
Home
Close
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Rouzbeh Abbassi is an Associate Professor and Discipline Leader of the Civil Engineering Program at the School of Engineering of Macquarie University (Sydney, NSW, Australia). He has adjunct Professor positions with Memorial University and the University of Tasmania. He completed his PhD in environmental engineering at Memorial University of Newfoundland (St. John's, NL, Canada). Upon completion, he was offered and undertook two Postdoctoral Fellowships; firstly at the Department of Process Engineering of Memorial University and secondly at the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Princeton University (Princeton, NJ, USA). Before joining Macquarie University, he was an environmental, safety and risk engineering senior lecturer at the College of Science and Engineering of the University of Tasmania (Launceston, TAS, Australia). He has expertise in risk and safety engineering applications to different engineering operations, including applications to onshore and offshore energy activities. He actively collaborates with various national and international research and industry partners on multi-million dollar projects in this area, such as the Blue Economy Corporative Research Centre (CRC), and SmartCrete CRC. He has published over 150 research papers in recognized journals and conferences in the field of his expertise, which has been cited more than 3600 times (current h-index: 34; I10-index: 84). He has also supervised 20+ PhD students during his tenure positions with different universities. He is a Section Editor for the Journal of Process Safety and Environmental Protection (Published by Elsevier), Associated Editor for the Journal of Safety in Extreme Environments (Published by Springer), a Member of the Editorial Board for the Journal of Loss Prevention in the Process Industries (Published by Elsevier) and a Member of the Editorial Board for the Journal of Integrated Security Science (Published by TU Delft).