Prof.(Dr.) S. K. Khare
He has served as Chairman/ member in DST, DBT, Wellcome Trust, CSIR task force and committees and scientific advisory boards of various universities and institutions. He is the Associate Editor of 3 Biotech, BMC Biotechnology, Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology; Frontiers in Microbiology; Editorial Board Member of Preparative.
Home
Prof. Khare holds a good reputation in international research community. He has been invited as a visiting Professor to the University of Blaise Pascal, Clermont Ferrand, France (2018 and 2014). He was a Visiting Fellow (DBT) at Northern Regional Research Laboratory, USDA, Peoria IL, USA (2006). Prof. Khare has been honoured with several awards and fellowships. Some of his notable awards are IITD Basic Science Research award 2021, United Nations- Amway award 1998, and the Malaviya Memorial Faculty Award 2018. He is also an elected fellow of prestigious societies like Royal Society of Chemistry (FRSC); NAAS Fellow, India; IBP fellow, France; UNU-Kirin Fellow, Japan; Fellow BRSI India; and Fellow of Microbiological Society India. He is currently, the Vice-President of Biotech Research Society of India.
Prof. Sunil K. Khare is an Institute Chair Professor of Biochemistry (HAG) and former Dean (R&D) and former Dean (Corporate Relations) at IIT Delhi. An alumnus of IIT Delhi, he received his doctoral degree in Biochemistry (1990). He did his Postdoctoral research at the National Food Research Institute, Tsukuba, Japan. Prof. Khare has more than 30 years of teaching and research experience with 215+ research publications (h-index of 48) and five product/ process patents, 23 book chapters and books. He has deposited many microbial strains to MTCC and submitted fifty sequences to the National GenBank. He has guided several masters and PhD students. He has been listed as Top 2% world scientist working in the area of Biochemistry based on i10 index (>8000) by the International Ranking Institute, Ad Scientific Index. His noteworthy contributions have been in the area of extremophiles, and enzyme technology for seminal applications in nano, food and environmental biotechnology.
Dean R&D/ Institute Chair, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi
Close
Eligibility Criteria