In-House Counsel - Prior to joining Kimberly Clark in 2020, Ms Jesrani performed the role of Associate General Counsel for L’Oréal, India and Bangladesh, where her role entailed providing end-to-end legal support to and partnering with the company’s diverse business divisions. Owing to her keen interest in sharing knowledge and imparting functional training, she developed and implemented several learning programs for non-legal functions. Before that she was a part of Piramal Healthcare Limited’s Legal function, where she played a key role in structuring, negotiating and documenting transactions related to real estate financing projects, joint ventures, business and brand acquisitions at domestic as well as cross-border levels. During her stints at different corporates, she has always been a part of the efforts towards maximizing value attached to the companies’ brands, by deploying relevant intellectual property protection strategies.
Director & General Counsel, Kimberly-Clark (India)
Home
Tulika has obtained certifications in Competition Law & IPR. In the year 2021, she received the “Women in Law Excellence” award in the 3rd Edition of the Annual Legal Era Awards. She believes in constant upskilling to keep up with the changing global environment & trends, and is, therefore, passionate about driving digital transformations in the legal field to enhance the value addition by in-house legal teams to their organizations.
Practising Lawyer – Before switching to the corporate side of the world, Tulika was a practising lawyer at DSK Legal Associates and, prior to that, at Crawford Bayley & Co (Advocates & Solicitors), as a part of the litigation team and handled disputes on varied topics, such as real estate, banking, commercial disputes etc.
Close
Tulika Jesrani
Eligibility Criteria
Advisory Board
Ms Tulika Jesrani is the General Counsel at Kimberly-Clark (India). She is a part of the Country Leadership Team of the company and also a member of the Board of Directors in the same. In this role, Ms Jesrani is responsible for providing legal advice, leadership, strategy, and risk management in all legal matters. She brings along with her over 17 years of experience across varied streams and sectors, such as FMCG, Pharma and CPG.