Tamas Haidegger
Tamás Haidegger received his MSc degrees from the Budapest University of Technology and Economics (BME) in Electrical Engineering and Biomedical Engineering, then PhD in medical robotics. His main field of research is on medical technologies, control/teleoperation of surgical robots, image-guided therapy and digital health technologies. Currently, he is associate professor at Óbuda University, serving as the director of the University Research and Innovation Center (EKIK), and as the technical lead of medical robotics research at the Antal Bejczy Center for Intelligent Robotics. Besides, he is a research area manager at the Austrian Center of Medical Innovation and Technology (ACMIT), working on minimally invasive surgical simulation and training, medical robotics and usability/workflow assessment through ontologies. Tamás is the co-founder of a university spin-off—HandInScan—focusing on objective hand hygiene control in the medical environment, member of the World Health Organization POPS group. He is an active member of various other professional organizations, including the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society (serving as an associate VP), IEEE SMC, IEEE EMBC, IEEE SA and euRobotics aisbl, holding leadership positions in the IEEE Hungary Section as well. He is a national delegate to the ISO TC299 standardization committee focusing on the safety and performance of medical robots and the ISO TC 304 working on hand hygiene and patient safety standards, furthermore, involved in the IEEE Global Initiative on Ethics of Autonomous and Intelligent Systems. He is co-Editor-in-Chief of Acta Polytechnica Hungarica and Associate Editor to the IEEE Trans. on Medical Robotics and Bionics, the IEEE Robotics and Automation Magazine and the Intl. J. of Computer Assisted Radiology and Surgery. Tamas is the author and co-author of over 250 scientific papers, books, articles across the various domains of biomedical engineering, with over 2000 independent citations to his work. He has been running a professional blog on medical robotic technologies for over 14 years: surgrob.blogspot.com.
Director,University Research & Innovation Centre (EKIK),Obuda University
Home
Close
Eligibility Criteria