Eligibility Criteria
Professor,Control Engineering, London South Bank University
Professor Tokhi received his BSc in Electrical Engineering from Kabul University, Afghanistan in 1978 and PhD degree from Heriot-Watt University, UK in 1988. He is a Chartered Engineer, Fellow of IET (Institution of Engineering and Technology), Senior Member of IEEE (Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineering), Member of IIAV (International Institute of Acoustics and Vibration) and Member of CLAWAR (Climbing and Walking Robots) Association.
Home
He has had major research grants from national and international sources. He has received, among other awards, the Tan Chin Tuan Exchange Fellowship Award in Engineering at Nanyang Technological Unviersity, Singapore, 2016 and the 1995/96 F C Williams Premium Award of the IEE (Institution of Electrical Engineers) for his work in high-performance real-time signal processing and control.
Osman Tokhi
He is Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Low-Frequency Noise, Vibration and Active Control, Editor of book series on Service Robotics (published by World Scientific Publishing Company), Co-editor of book series on Mobile Service Robotics (published by Elsevier Publishing Company), member of Editorial Advisory Board of Industrial Robot Journal. He has acted as Editor-in-Chief, Associate Editor, and member of editorial board of several other international journals.
Close
He has worked for industry and at various higher education establishments. He is currently Professor of Robotics and head of Cognitive Systems Research Centre at the School of Engineering, London South Bank University, UK. His current research interests include Active Noise and Vibration Control, Adaptive/intelligent Control, High-performance real-time computing, Soft-computing Modelling and Control of Dynamic Systems, and Assistive Robotics. He has published extensively and has completed numerous projects in these areas.
He is Chair of CLAWAR Association, Chair of BSI (British Standards Institute) Technical Committee AMT10 (Robotics) Sub-Committee-1 on Robot Ethics, Member of IFAC Technical Committees TC 3.1 (Computers for Control) and TC 3.2 (Computational Intelligence for Control), Member of IET Technical Advisory Panel of Concepts for Automation and Control Professional Network. He is Convenor of ISO/TC299 (Robotics) working group WG2 on Service Robot Safety, Member of several working groups of ISO/TC299 – Robotics Committee, the IEC/TC62/SC62A – Common aspects of Electrical Equipment used in Medical Practice, and of BSI AMT/010 Robotics Committee.