I am delighted to introduce, Bharti Goyal Maan- VP at Capgemini. In her role, she architects the growth and profitability of the Capgemini's SAP business - nurtures talent to build a high-performing culture and provides strategic direction for driving customer success and building strong customer relationships.
Technology, for Bharti, is more than just a profession – it's a passion. She believes that because technology is embedded into everything around us, it presents us with immense possibilities to open new frontiers, create amazing experiences, explore horizons of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and make this world a more sustainable place. She helps customers leverage the power of Design-thinking, Digital Core, Deep-tech and innovation to turn into an intelligent enterprise.
Home
An ardent believer in sustainability, she runs Carbon Removal initiatives "Plastic-free Himalayas", "Plastic-free Birthdays" and "Plastic-free Stadiums". She believes in the empowerment of girls right at the budding stage and runs "Sri Vidya Scholarships" to support the education of girl children in remote villages of Himachal and the tribal cyclone belt of Odisha.
A road trip enthusiast, traveller, mountaineer and devotee of Himalayan mountains, Bharti has partaken in many summits and treks. Bharti enjoys books, cricket and the crunchy South Indian and Bollywood cinema.
Close
An alumnus of INSEAD France, an entrepreneur and an accomplished industry leader, Bharti has an illustrious career spanning more than 22 years. She made contributions to the business- social-technical ecosystems through the formal positions in organizations like SAP and IBM and informal engagements with industry groups like NASSCOM Deep Tech Club, Lumis Supply Chain Club, "Industrial Internet Consortium for Industry 4.0" and "Digital Twin Consortium".
She enjoys the tremendous support of her entrepreneur husband and her 4 energetic kids.
Eligibility Criteria
Vice President-SAP Business & COE, APAC Platform, Capgemini
Bharti Goyal Maan