He first lived in India as a school teacher in Chandigarh from 1967 to 1969 and has spent six years in India between 1967 and 2019. He completed a doctorate in Indian history at Sussex University in the United Kingdom in 1973, taught for 25 years in the Politics Program at La Trobe University in Melbourne, and worked twice at the Australian National University in Canberra, where he was Director of the Research School for Pacific and Asian Studies and Dean, College of Asia & the Pacific.
(London: C. Hurst/New York: Harvard University Press, 2013), with Assa Doron;
Politics, Women and Well-Being: How Kerala Became a Model
Home
Media at Work in China and India
Close
Waste of a Nation: Garbage and Growth in India
Visiting Research Professor, National University of Singapore and Professor Emeritus, Australian National University, Canberra and La Trobe University, Melbourne
His latest books include
(Oxford University Press, 2010, 3rd edition)); Media and Modernity (Permanent Black, 2010);
Professor Robin Jeffrey is Visiting Research Professor, National University of Singapore and Emeritus Professor at Australian National University, Canberra and La Trobe University, Melbourne.
Eligibility Criteria
The Decline of Nair Dominance: Society and Politics in Travancore, 1847-1908
Professor Jeffrey is the world’s leading scholar on the Indian media, having published seminal works on its evolution and politics. He is the also the author of several path-breaking books on varied aspects of Indian society: including the political economy of sanitation as well as society and growth in Kerala.
Professor Jeffrey’s edited books include
(2015), with Ronojoy Sen;
More than Maoism: Politics, Policies and Insurgencies in South Asia
The Great Indian Phone Book: How the Cheap Phone Changes Business, Politics and Daily Life
(Harvard University Press, 2018), with Assa Doron. He is also the author of
(Oxford University Press, 2003, 2nd ed.)
(2012), with Ronojoy Sen and Pratima Singh.
India’s Newspaper Revolution
(first published in 1976, in several editions);
Prof. Robin Jeffrey