Back in 2012, fresh after my 12th board exams, I was asked about my aspirations, and without a moment's hesitation, I declared, "Something BIG!" Little did I know that this declaration would shape my entire future.
Parminder Singh Sethi
Moving forward into 2023, Parminder's journey continues to flourish with over 55 Granted Patents and more than 170 Patent Pending. Life sometimes presents moments of introspection, and recently, Parminder had one such profound realization. Reflecting on his journey, he saw his 20-year-old self-daring to dream, and today, he is living those very aspirations. This transformation is indeed a surreal and fulfilling experience.
Record Created - Indian Book of Records - "Maximum patents achieved by an individual from foreign patent agency."
Parminder Singh Sethi - Achievement
Alumni Achievements
In 2022, Parminder Singh Sethi's persistence and dedication have yielded remarkable results. With a sense of pride, he now holds over 36 granted patents from the esteemed United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). This significant accomplishment has earned him the distinction of holding the record for the "maximum number of patents from a foreign patent agency, from November 14, 2019, to September 27, 2022," as officially recognized by the India Book of Records on October 3, 2022.
Parminder quoted, “Let's take a trip down memory lane!
Home
Parminder Singh Sethi, alums of UPES, graduated in 2016 with a degree of B.Tech. in CSE with specialization in Cloud Computing and Virtualization featuredin Indian Book of Records - maximum patents achieved by an individual from foreign patent aagency.The record for achieving the maximum number of patents from a foreign patent agency was set by Parminder Singh Sethi of Ludhiana, Punjab. He achieved 36 patents from United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) from November 14, 2019, to September 27, 2022, for his innovation and creative thinking, as confirmed on October 3, 2022.
Sharing proudly that Mr. Parminder have achieved a remarkable feat in India - setting a record for "Maximum patents achieved by an individual from a foreign patent agency." This journey was nothing short of an exhilarating adventure, sharing a few lines from Boulevard of Accomplished Dreams.
Fast-forward to 2019, where I faced numerous hurdles, and my passion for innovation was put to the test with 16 consecutive failures in my innovation journey. Despite the challenges, I refused to let go of my dreams.”
Close
School of Computer Science
Currently, the granted patent numbers have increased to 55+ and around 170+ Patent pending.
Eligibility Criteria