Ankit Jain
Partner Designate, Luthra and Luthra Law Offices
UPES B.Tech. Alumnus
Mudit Verma
Further Education
as recommended by industry experts.
Founder, Blusmart Mobility
UPES alumni from the 2005-2006 batch, representing top organizations, revisited the campus after years, reminiscing about their journey.
UHackathon 4.0
View All
our alumni. We are setting up a special ninja team that will assist our alumni in their job transitions. There shall be numerous networking opportunities and guidance on personal branding that will help them make a mark as competent professionals.
Get ready to vibe with UPES at the coolest Women's Bike Rally ever!
Alumni Meet - Gulf Chapter
Founder
transition into managerial roles within the tech industry
Convocation
We have created avenues for our alumni to upskill by enrolling for various courses in
UPES M.Design Alumnus
nd
Skills
Founder, PensionBox
India leads the world
contact@runwayincubator.com
Our start-up incubator, Runway, runs 5 incubation boot camps, for the alums who are keen to make a mark as entrepreneurs. It also has a yearly incubation cohort for up to 40 alumni startups with assured funding for at least 5 start-ups.
Virasat 2024
News & Events
September 29, 2024
It was heartwarming to reconnect with our incredible alumni, share memories, and celebrate our collective journey.
Vidhi Utsav left us spellbound with its thought-provoking workshops , captivating performances, and a kaleidoscope of cultural delights.
UPES BA LL.B. Alumnus
For the alumni interested in higher studies, we offer 50% scholarship for their Masters, preferential allotments for sponsored PhDs, and up to 35% special scholarships at our partner universities.
Close
Reuniting with old friends, reliving cherished memories, and creating new ones!
Lead Business Development, SLB (Schlumberger Limited)
Adapt or Perish - Law Leadership Event
in more than 21 different countries from all around the world
Alumni Meet - Mumbai Chapter
A musical tribute by the students and staff of UPES
Notable Alumni
Watch the 2005-2006 UPES alumni from renowned organizations like Shell, Bharat Petroleum, Essar Group, and Sharjah National Oil Corporation reflect on their experiences of visiting the campus after many years.
Please contact Mr. Mohit Nagpal, Incubation Senior Manager, Runway, for more details at
lifetime placements/career opportunities to
Ankit Dubey
Alumni Connect
Aaj Ki Rani - Women's Bike Rally
An incredible evening at the UPES Alumni Meet - Delhi Chapter!
Over 300 UPES Bangalore Chapter alumni reunited for a memorable evening with top industry professionals and entrepreneurs.
22
Vidhi Utsav - Law Fest
Alumni Meet
An unforgettable evening unfolded as 100+ alumni from top companies like Schlumberger, Baker Hughes, Halliburton, ADNOC, Gulf Islamic Investments, and more came together for the UPES Alumni Meet - Gulf Chapter in Abu Dhabi.
Run For Tomorrow
+91-8077660434
Incubation
We are the first university in the world to offer
March 8, 2024
Freshers 2024 was all about creating memories and friendships that will last a lifetime!
And to ensure our alumni network is safeguarded from industry upheavals in a post-Covid world, we are proud to have launched NEST – a unique alumni connect platform, a resource base the alumni can always depend on to seek advice and receive support as they progress in their careers.
January 24-26, 2025
Watch Now
Watch as we celebrate a vibrant night of Garba and colorful ethnic outfits during Dholida 2024!
October 15 - 29, 2024
Kuldeep Prashar
Couriero
Convocation, a landmark celebration of academic achievements.
To meet the needs of the industry, companies need highly skilled ‘Techno-Managers’ who work at the intersection of business and technology to help fuel business growth and become future-ready.
Success Stories
Homecoming - Alumni Meet
Anmol Jaggi
June 29, 2024
alumni@upes.ac.in
Bhupendra Verma
at four locations in India – Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Dehradun.
We’ve ensured our alumni always feel safe and welcomed at UPES. Our dedicated team helps manage more than 10 Alumni Regional Chapters that meet at regular intervals for various events. Today, we support over 22,000 UPES alumni spread across the world, to become the focal point where they can converge and interact.
January 25, 2025
Join our alumni network
UPES B.Tech Alumnus
Alumni
Alumni Meet - Bangalore Chapter
Freshers 2024
Alumni Meet - Delhi Chapter
Shreya Singh
Deep Tech, the Metaverse, Digital Transformation, and Leadership
Experience 24 hours of non-stop coding, collaboration, and innovation as we dive deep into the limitless possibilities of the Metaverse.
Home
ALUMNI
Product Design Lead, Flipkart & Cleartrip
UPES is more than just an institution where students spend a few years earning a degree. It’s a place where lifelong connections are made. Connections that transform into helpful professional bonds, or simply, friendships that stand the test of time.
We look forward to your involvement as NEST progresses. Please do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have questions, concerns, or ideas you would like to share. To know about NEST, write to us at
The Bangalore Chapter Alumni Meet was nothing short of magical, filled with warm reunions, heartfelt conversations, and moments that will stay with us forever.
Dholida 2024
Oct 01, 2023
September 28, 2024
News and Events
Sept 23, 2023
We come together in a marathon to create a positive impact, one step at a time.
Bhuvan Ralhan
Alumni Homecoming
Eligibility Criteria
NEST
UPES is proud to be associated with Virasat 2024, India’s largest heritage festival in Dehradun, where legendary artists bring traditions to life through their creativity.
We raise a toast to new beginnings and create endless memories as we welcome our incredible freshers.
or mail at
UPES B.Tech. Alumna
UPES Alumnus (BA LL.B.)
Ukti - Literature Fest
The thought leadership event "Adapt or Perish" brought together industry leaders, academicians, and senior law alumni to explore the evolution of legal education in a tech-driven world.
UPES recently concluded its 22
April 13 - 14, 2024
UKTI wasn’t just a literary fest but a reason to celebrate our culture, which is long forgotten in the hustle of the contemporary world.
Partner, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas
Alumni Meet - Hyderabad Chapter
Edology, in collaboration with KPMG, is offering an online PG program in Technology Management that is hybrid, industry-oriented and focused on career outcomes. Applicable for both tech and non-tech working professionals, our learners can
April 5 - 7, 2024
Nest - Alumni Support For Life
The UPES alumni association is a network of over 75,000 alumni
Global Game Jam
December 21-22, 2024
UPES Freshers 2023
Sept 02, 2023
Careers
UPES successfully hosted the 2nd edition of Global Game Jam, showcasing enthusiastic participation and exceptional creativity in game development.
Co-founder, Raymach Technologies