Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
A project funded by Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), seeks to investigate the development of fiber-reinforced self-healing composite materials for aerospace applications, where small cracks, which are caused by stress, should be able to “repair” at low temperature. In order to match the industrial importance, enhancement of mechanical strength without sacrificing the bond exchange capability still limit their real-life application, however, these limitations can be overcome through the development of fiber-reinforced self-healing composites. This is to ensure more safety in air traffic and to make aircraft components more durable.
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Faculty
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Please enter email address
*
Two different strategies are executed to prepare the self-healing composites, where the first concept works with polymers whose molecular chains are automatically interrelated after a crack in the material, and this happens without mechanical intervention from the outside or an elevated temperature. For use in aircraft components, however, this reaction must also be carried out at lower temperatures so that even minor damage can be remedied during the flight. The second concept involves vitrimers (a material that exhibits a thermoset polymer like mechanical properties/ durability and thermoplastic like malleability/ processability). In other words, vitrimers have combined advantages of both thermoset and thermoplastics polymers. Due to their associative dynamic covalent adaptive networks, vitrimers can reform their cleaved bonds rapidly without failure. The associative dynamic covalent adaptive network exchange behavior of vitrimers allows their reprocessing/recycling in most of the performed material. Given the huge amount of unrecyclable waste from thermoset polymer-based products, the potential of the vitrimer concept is highly attractive, which meets the recently increasing demand to create polymers with efficient recyclability, together with the need to reduce CO2-emission and petroleum resources consumption.
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
School of Engineering
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
The writer is Dr. Sravendra Rana, Professor, Applied Science, UPES School of Advanced Engineering
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
The combination of the above strategies can be valuable, considering the increasing demand for recyclable and healable composite material with great mechanical strength, especially for the future development of high-class resins in the automobile and aerospace industry.
the
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
There is a growing demand for recyclable and healable composite material in the automobile and aerospace industry. The material has great mechanical strength, and has applications in the development of high-class resins to make aircraft components more durable
Research and Innovation
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Self-healing material is inspired by Nature – the way natural healing of wounds and cuts occur in living species. In the case of structural material, long-time degradation gives rise to microcracks, thus, causing material failure. Therefore, conventional thermosetting material is susceptible to failure after fracture or damage during service, leading to a sharp decrease in their safety and lifespan. The exploration of recyclable and healable thermosetting polymeric material is in high demand as it would allow to overcome not only difficulties connected to damage diagnosis, but also include appropriate interventions to restore (and subsequently) recycle the material functionality. Different concepts to generate material that are able to repair autonomically or via an external stimuli, such as heat, light, or pressure, have been designed through various approaches such as capsule-based covalent systems, where catalyst cost, stability and processing is still a challenge.
Ekta Kashyap
Published 07/07/2022
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Image credit: Pexels
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name