A video resume showcases a candidate’s skills, qualifications, and personality to potential employers in the most impactful manner possible. It is fast replacing traditional paper resumes and cover letters
Narrow down all the footage you’ve captured and select the best takes. Using your video shots or outline, you can alter, modify, and reassemble footage to fit your story. Some smart gadgets and software can be used to give the desired effect to your video.
Trending Post
A video resume is a new way to interact with a prospective employer. It is an add-on to the resume and cover letter, a short but powerful tool that creates a lasting impression on the recruiter’s mind. A 60-second video is usually enough to give the employer a good idea of a candidate’s personality and communication skills even before the interview takes place.
Last Name
The video allows employers to get a glimpse of the candidate’s communication skills, presentation style, and overall demeanour before deciding whether to invite them for an interview. Video resumes can be shared through various platforms, such as email, online job portals, or social media.
An effective video resume showcases a candidate’s unique personality to a prospective employer and demonstrates why he or she is a good fit for the role. It is a valuable addition to the application and helps the individual stand apart from others through a distinctive and creative approach.
Steps to create a good video resume
Using your outline, record each section of your video resume. Record your video numerous times using diverse expressions, pitch, and vocal tones to ensure you appear confident and natural throughout. Record lots of shots until you get the best one.
+91
National Sports Day 2019: Significance, Theme and Benefits of Sports for Students
Higher education is an important and exciting life decision, so when looking for universities, you’ll want to evaluate a variety of parameters, including academic quality, location, fees, and campus safety
Pic credit: Shutterstock
Jyoti Bansal
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
First Name
Published 07/06/2023
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
From school to university: Everything you need to know about the transition
Email Address
Factors to consider when choosing a university
The video resume can briefly discuss the individual’s skills and achievements, giving a personal touch to the traditional form of application. Creating a video resume that fits the requirement of the job is a crucial task. An appropriate video can give the candidate an edge over others, especially if it is made keeping the requirement of the job or the industry in mind.
Mobile Number
Editing is key
Tags
What is a video resume?
Feedback matters
-- None --
Going to university can be a very exciting opportunity, especially if you’re going to the one away from your hometown. Studying at an institution like UPES, involves multiple unique growth opportunities that would mould you for life. Participating in the multitude of group activities, clubs, multiple classes, festivals and more can be quite an enriching experience
The true meaning of Quality Education
Submit
Record and re-record
While for some students, the shift may come easy, others, unfortunately, face a downward spiral in their academic performance as they move from school to university. Here’s a lowdown on the preparation you need to make for a smooth changeover to a higher education institution
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
Take small capsule shots
UPES Admission Enquiry
Decide judiciously what you want from the video. Make an initial draft of your speech and decide what you want to communicate and how you want to do it. When preparing your draft, try including a few powerful action verbs to make it more cogent and convincing.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
Abhishek Verma
10 great things about going to a university
the
The writer is Abhishek Verma, Assistant Director, Career Services Team, UPES
Video resume: Your new-age tool to ace interviews
Guest Blogs
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Find the right ambience
It is always advisable to review and check your final shots to ensure their lucidity and impact. Review your final cut a few times to ensure the video is clear and organized. Include your friends and batchmates in the review process to make the video more effective and persuasive.
Choose your recording device
Please Select Course Type
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
The world has become a highly competitive place, and creating a niche for themselves in this scenario has become imperative for job seekers. A video resume can set a candidate apart from others.
Decide what you have in mind
In an increasingly polarized world, there is a growing need for value education and academicians have an important role to play in the character-building of their students
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
Your shots should not be in one long sequence. Make sure there are lots of shots and break up what you are saying. Just like a conventional resume, a video resume should also have segments. Make sure the breaks are clean and make sense. You can have a different shot for every few sentences.
The right ambience makes a big difference. Set up a space with a neutral background and attractive lighting. As much as possible, keep away from distracting backdrops.
Please enter last name
To create a good video resume, one needs to be familiar with the latest tools and technologies.
Your device should be capable of capturing high-resolution videos with clarity. Adjust your device so that it can capture your natural aura and presence.
29th August 2019 marks the 115th birth anniversary of the hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. In order to pay a tribute to the phenomenal player, Major Dhyan Chand, the day has been marked as National Sports Day in India.