Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
Opens career opportunities
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Engaging in research while studying at university significantly impacts students’ growth and development. From developing a problem-solving mindset to getting more career opportunities, students benefit from research in several ways
Please enter email address
There is always something new to learn, even if you are an expert in your field. The main reason for undertaking research is to gain new information. Research will help you in developing a unique perspective on a topic. The whole process offers a chance for learning and growth. According to studies, research can help with memory restoration and maintenance as well as numeracy and problem-solving ability. As a result, it aids in a better understanding of concepts and theories. Conducting research can also help you develop an improved and higher capacity to learn.
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components. Universities conduct research as part of discovering new knowledge; any intellectual development is impossible without research. Here are seven reasons how students can benefit from researching while studying at a university.
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Allows for a mental workout
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
Increases credibility and presents innovative concepts
By
the
Research improves comprehension and decision-making
Please Select Course Type
Keeps you informed about current events
A subscriber email already exists.
In the practical world, the value of research cannot be emphasised enough. Successful institutions spend a lot of money and resources on research and development to ensure they have all the necessary data. Your academic research experience will benefit you in planning future research endeavours.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
A resource for effective learning
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
In today’s globalised world, research plays a critical role in an academic institution’s development; knowledge-driven growth based on innovation is essential. The fundamental premise of research is the pursuit of knowledge. Students, society and nations all gain from high-quality research.
UPES Editorial Team
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Research is the most important instrument for comprehending the nuances of an issue and disapproving falsehoods. It helps in upholding truth and building on to generate credible information. Conducting research helps you gain better knowledge and improve your decision-making skills. Researchers examine the specifics of a topic and assist in making educated conclusions. Therefore, we can say that research helps people make better decisions and address challenges.
People are more likely to trust someone’s views if he or she is informed about the matter. Participating in research can help you build a strong basis to create an opinion. It is possible that you already have thoughts and viewpoints on the subject under consideration. More perspectives develop as more research is conducted. It encourages you to look into diverse points of view and assess your opinion.
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Discoveries are continuously being made in various fields, particularly those related to science. Researching will prevent you from falling behind or having erroneous information on a subject. You can use the most up-to-date information to elaborate on thoughts or confidently explain a topic.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Email Address
Allowing your mind to absorb facts and exercise logic regularly can help it to stay stimulated. It encourages the brain’s natural curiosity, driving it to explore new possibilities. Reading and writing are the two most important aspects of research; working with statistics and figures become second nature. Reading helps you to broaden your horizons of knowledge and developing writing skills helps you to express yourself clearly.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
Research raises concerns that have not been addressed previously. It allows people to talk about and respond to issues and topics that have been left unaddressed. The research approach can debunk assumptions that individuals may have. They may occur because of a common misconception or the erroneous use of a resource. Conducting research will help you find rational and fact-based knowledge.
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Assists in problem solving by providing valid evidence
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
Published 24/05/2022
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name