+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
The socio-cultural lens: Insights from social media reels
Law
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Archibald Hill
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
School of Liberal Studies
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
So often we hear someone is pursuing arts, liberal arts pr liberal studies, and it really sends us into a frenzy as to what do they all mean, and how they are similar or different!
21/11/2024
Course Type
Have you ever wondered why some people love spending time with friends while others feel shy talking to strangers?
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
After years of reading literature, deciphering its meaning on your own, writing about it, and drawing conclusions from it, you might be wondering how to use your knowledge most effectively in the field.
Download Brochure
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
01/10/2024
12/08/2024
*
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
View all
Relevance of Data Science in Economics
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Real-world applications of the B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour Program
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Dr. Sudipa Nag
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
A Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Economics opens up a world of opportunities, combining analytical thinking with a deep understanding of how economies function.
“Language is a skin: I rub my language against the other. It is as if I had words instead of fingers, or fingers at the tip of my words. My language trembles with desire” – Roland Barthes
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
David Joseph Wrisley is Professor of Digital Humanities at New York University Abu Dhabi. His research interests include comparative approaches to medieval literature in European
Aditya Mukherjee
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Podcasting: The New Frontier in Journalism
Subscribe
A Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree is more than simply a stepping stone in today's rapidly changing workforce; it's a doorway to a wide range of employment prospects.
Paths, Possibilities, and Promises of Doing “Contemporary” History
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Experience in Digital Humanities prepares learners for an uncertain future: Prof David J Wrisley
Design
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
Latest Articles
Featured Posts
In today’s volatile world, where business operations are changing rapidly, the power of soft skills has emerged as one of the few constants. The current COVID-19 catastrophe has altered the way recruiters are selecting the right candidate
5 skills top recruiters will seek in a professional post COVID-19
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
How social media has changed the way we consume news
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Business
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
View less
Career Scope after B.Sc. Psychology
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
How evolving technologies will impact the media sector
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
David Diop’s guide to writing an award-winning novel
Health Sciences & Technology
Find it difficult to build a new habit? You may have been applying the wrong strategy all this while. Learn about a foolproof way to form effective habits and achieve success in life
Showing items
Everything a Class 12th Student Should Understand about Mass Communication
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
Can there be a history of “contemporary” past? What constitutes “contemporary history”? What are the prospects of reading contemporary history? How is School of Liberal Studies at UPES leading the way in this direction?
-- None --
“The pursuit of natural knowledge, the investigation of the world - mental and material - in which we live, is not a dull and spiritless affair: rather is it a voyage of the adventure of the human mind, a holiday for reckless and imaginative souls.”-
--None--
The Impact of Social Media on Journalism: A Double-Edged Sword
By a Correspondent
Blogs
India has rapidly emerged as a major player in the podcasting world, ranking third globally—just behind the USA and China.
B.A. Vs. B.A.(Hons.) Decoded for You
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
Importance of communication skills for leadership
In these modern times, the need for connectivity between a leader and their customers and employees both is vital and, therefore, both internal and external communications are critical to produce worthy business results.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
BA vs. B.Sc: Which Undergraduate Degree Is Right for You?
While reels are primarily used for creative and entertaining content, they tend to reflect and amplify the broader cultural norms and social trends that are prevalent in society.
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Empowering Through Words: Role of Literature Courses in Liberal Studies
Are you also finding yourself tangled in the tug-of-war between B.A. Vs. B.A. (Hons)? Don’t worry, you are NOT alone!
Email Address
4 successful mantras to develop effective habits
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Advanced Engineering
23/08/2024
Please select Course
20/11/2024
Choosing the right undergraduate degree is an important decision that can shape your future career path.
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Are you a Class 12 student wondering about your career options? If you have a passion for media, communication, or storytelling, Mass Communication could be the perfect path for you.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Once upon a time, journalism was simple. Reporters chased stories, newspapers hit the stands, and TV news tickers scrolled through our screens.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Both Economics and Data Science have a lot in common. Both require strong analytical abilities, involve investigation of huge sets of raw data and solving quantitative problems through modeling techniques.
Unlocking the professional benefits of studying Literature
Computer Science
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
Liberal Studies
18/02/2025
17/09/2024