5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Teaching:
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Politics:
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
03/01/2025
Published 10/08/2022
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler
Across the globe, some of the best politicians have often been lawyers. India is no exception. In the historic legacy of Mahatma Gandhi, and Dr. BR Ambedkar who led our constituent assembly, our history is rich with the influence of lawyers. There is, of course a deep connection between politics and law, perhaps best demonstrated by the notion that parliamentarians are by definition, lawmakers. Politicians who are trained in law are better at establishing it. They would understand the need to pass legislation that are high in efficacy, regardless of their populist perception. In contemporary times, leaders like Shri Kapil Sibal, the late Shri Arun Jaitley, are some of the many lawyers who have carried the torch of legal prowess into parliament.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
If writing is your passion, you can combine that with your education to become a journalist, a content creator, or writer. In a country like India, where a lot of people don’t have access to legal knowledge, educating the public about laws that apply to them, their civil rights, their legal compliance obligations is both a rewarding and an exciting career.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
Legal writer and content creator:
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
Entrepreneur
A career in law is one of the most respectable ones in India. With the largest Constitution in the world, India is known as a ‘Lawyer’s paradise’. Law is the foundation our society is built on. To live in a society with the rule of law is one of the most powerful privileges that we owe our ancestors for. Lawyers have represented the best of our society in many ways, bringing their unique, logical perspective into many careers.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
As a legal professional, there are a plethora of career opportunities available. One can be a litigator, legal analyst at a big firm, or work as an apprentice for an already established lawyer. While the standard career choices are well known, there needs to be more emphasis on the less-considered career options. An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler. Hence, here are a few exciting, unconventional career options explained below:
A policy analyst needs to be sharp, calculative, and visionary. They’re the knowledge base behind the decisions that a leader makes. As a policy analyst, you’ll be responsible for assisting the leadership in analysing the efficacy and impact of recommendations, make sense of statistical data, and suggest changes. As government steps up to regulate many new industries, over the next decade the job of a policy analyst will be indispensable to our growth as a nation.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Policy Analyst:
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
As we have established, there’s a lot you can do with a law degree that strays off the trail. In addition to having a good legal education, you also need a myriad skills, which can be developed through a robust individual development program. At UPES School of Law, the campus life is vibrant with debates, problem solving competitions, seminars, conferences, and opportunities for you to find your passion. You can only build a career if you identify your strengths and weaknesses at an early stage. UPES School of Law aims to strengthen the backbone of our democracy: the legal system.
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
As a legal professional, there are a plethora of career opportunities available.
: A lot of lawyers find themselves donning the cloak of an entrepreneur. It makes sense if you consider that there are a lot of common skills that both lawyers and entrepreneurs possess. Some of them include confidence, leadership, research skills, foresight, problem solving abilities, and much more.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The CLAT exams are taken by 60 thousand students every year. In addition to this, there are a lot of other competitive exams that students apply for, such as GGSIPU, DU LLB, LSAT, AILET, etc. A significant number of them attend external coaching before applying. Many young lawyers will have stories of teachers who inspired them. If mentoring young minds is something that interests you, you can try your hand at teaching.
Image credit: Pexels
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
upes school of law
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022