IoT has also ushered ‘Smart Eyewear Glasses Technology.’ The latter has sensors and has provisions for wireless and Bluetooth connectivity and accessibility features right in front of the eyes. But the catch here is, there’s no scope for distraction. The user can perform various functions like reading messages or emails, opening a map, take photographs and even research on the internet, if needed! Some features on Google glasses have been built around this concept and many other companies are already exploring this segment to roll out more lucrative offerings in the market for users, soon.
https://www.ibm.com/in-en/cloud/automation/mayflower-autonomous-ship
+91
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uxYJiXhT7Rc
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
Published 27/02/2023
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Recently, the Nature Journal published a paper by two MIT scientists who have invented a new material which is lighter than plastic but stronger than steel. Dubbed as an ‘impossible material’, it is six times stronger than bulletproof material and can be used as a lightweight, durable coating for car parts or cell phones, or as a building material for structures like bridges.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Here are top technologies of the future:
UPES B.Tech. student Siddhivinayak Dubey
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0GgYLdf1ago
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Meanwhile in Hong Kong, researchers have created a magnetic slime robot, which can slip through narrow spaces, fix broken circuits, and has the potential of even retracting accidentally swallowed things from the human body. Reported in the Journal of Advanced Functional Materials, this 1.55 mm thick robot can also grasp solid things by wrapping itself around them. Incidentally the slime has a mix of magnets and has to be controlled by an external magnet to create movement.
Future engineering technologies to bet on
• New Materials:
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
One of the most popular examples is Frenchman Franky Zapata’s 2019 invention — Flyboard or Hoverboard — a concept which was confined to the anti-hero ‘the Green Goblin’ in Marvel comics. Zapata brought this to life by designing a flyboard with light batteries and flew across the English Channel. Now he has invented a single person flying vehicle—Jet Racer—which is a software controlled flying system and can carry cargo too, 20 to 40 feet off the ground. In 2024, Zapata plans to commercialize a similar product — Air Scooter — to the public.
It’s the age of new materials and their multiple usages. Shape memory alloys—that retain original shape after being deformed, metamaterials and nonporous materials are the future. Metamaterials are artificial materials which are not found in a natural state and are known to have electromagnetic properties. These will usher greater efficiency, impact, business growth and are being viewed as gamechangers in smart deliverables in sensor detection, infrastructure monitoring, aerospace among others.
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Everyone knows autonomous vehicles, smart buildings, traffic and public management systems, construction, manufacturing, healthcare, retail and logistics are transitioning fast to IoT systems. But the latest development ‘smart farming’ is touted to be the next big thing around the world where farmers can get information on soil fertility, weather conditions, crop yield, rainfall by just using IoT devices and even take any preventive measures when required. According to reports by iotsworldcongress.com, the global smart agriculture market size is expected to triple by 2025, reaching $15.3 billion.
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Tidal Energy:
Subscribe
Select Course
https://scitechdaily.com/mit-engineers-create-the-impossible-new-material-that-is-stronger-than-steel-and-as-light-as-plastic/
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
https://robbreport.com/motors/aviation/one-person-flying-machine-zapata-airracer-barrel-rolls-fighter-jet-1234802610/
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Video Links:
These days, a ship’s captain is informing marine researchers the impact of climate change and pollution by analysing and sharing critical ocean data round-the-clock. This effort is aimed to better understand and protect our oceans — now and into the future. It has real time sensors, onboard machines learning and analytics along with a decision taking engine. The captain runs his ship—Mayflower– with precision, navigates truant weather conditions over choppy waters, sticks to maritime laws and has won over admirers in its transatlantic journey.
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
https://www.google.com/glass/start/
-- None --
Mechatronics:
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
It is the meeting point of design, and electrical, mechanical and automotive disciplines in engineering. With the increasing demand for more efficient systems, Mechatronics and Robotics courses market size was valued at USD 1.17 billion in 2021 and is projected to reach USD 2.06 billion by 2030. Medical devices, autonomous vehicles, and autonomous transports use these electromechanical components of mechatronics.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
The big deal here is that this crewless ship is commandeered by an artificial intelligence (AI) captain who doesn’t need any human intervention. Mayflower is the latest offering by IBM as their next generation of innovation, efficiency, safety and cost-savings in business.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
https://www.iotsworldcongress.com/iot-transforming-the-future-of-agriculture/
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Creating electricity by harnessing the ocean tides is a renewable energy technology which has tremendous potential. In fact, United Kingdom’s first “commercial” tidal energy projects, led by developers SIMEC Atlantis and Nova Innovation, both have multi-turbine arrays in the water in Scotland. The largest of these can currently produce six megawatts of power and provide energy to a thousand homes.
Everything smart, with IoT:
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
These instances are indicative of a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve people, planet and profits while growing together.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
•
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
While there’s the popular belief that robotics are the only future technology, it’s not entirely true, opines Dr. Ravi Iyer, Dean, School of Computer Science, UPES. He said, “Our future will be defined by the smart and efficient usage of materials, electronics, robotics and mechanics. Design and engineering will play a crucial role here and besides the ‘greater good’ and business aspect, future technologies will look at comprehensive deliverables and services which address every possible loophole and attempt a resolution for differing scenarios. For instance a robot has to retract someone from debris – which its human counterpart is unable to access – the robot’s deliverables should also include immediately assessing the situation—evaluating and offering immediate assistance like blood pressure and pulse monitoring, oxygen supply and any other intervention; in critical cases keeping a person alive till help reaches them.”
References:
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?