+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Driving profitability
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting) -Digital Video Production and Monetisation
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Today, some media companies are also using personalised data for customer delight, like how Spotify creates the ‘Year in Review’ section for each listener. Here, data visualisation plays a crucial role in translating raw data into an appealing format. Data visualisation is critical when it comes to presenting the collected data in a meaningful and effective way. It is extensively used for both breaking news as well as feature stories in the form of interactive graphics.
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
Published 21/05/2021
19/09/2024
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
world of media and entertainment
How to master the art of effective conversation
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
Please enter first name
If you want to be a part of a dynamic and data-driven media industry, it is imperative to have a thorough understanding of data analysis and visualization. UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media. The school gives graduates a definite edge, with a number of learning opportunities that include interacting with eminent journalists, access to state-of-the-art studios, employment-relevant training and unmatched global exposure, among others. UPES School of Modern Media, which has renowned media experts on its advisory board, offers international internships as well as placement assistance. There are five specializations on offer:
Big data is directly impacting the profitability of media companies today. The forecasting and recommendation feature is helping media players increase their engagement with their customers, thereby ensuring better revenues. By analysing data, they can unearth ways to drive sales, adopt new marketing strategies, work on content delivery, etc. They can also avoid churn by knowing when and why a customer is unsubscribing and build strategies to retain and attract customers.
Mobile Number
Decoding customer insights
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The data on customer behaviour enables media companies to derive a deeper understanding of their audience. For example, the rise of e-books and audiobooks in the publishing industry has helped publishers unlock customer insights such as what genre is in demand, what kind of books are being read by a certain age group, how many hours people are spending on reading etc. Similarly, streaming platforms are also using data to better understand their customers and usage patterns, such as what kind of content they like to watch, at what time of the day, etc. Data analysis in the media industry has opened up new opportunities for companies to discover new facets about their customers every day.
By
BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) -Media Management, Public Policy and Strategic Communications
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
upes school of modern media
13/08/2024
BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) -Digital Publishing/Website Management
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
Predicting customer preferences
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Analytics and Visualization
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
With data collection, data interpretation is equally important to effectively engage with customers. Sustained data collection along with analysis helps companies predict audience interest and behaviour based on viewing history, searches, reviews, etc. Companies then utilise the analysed data for forecasting and recommendation. Data is helping media players to guide their customers and offer them what they seek. For example, publishers today can recommend a book title based on your reading history, or a music platform can create a personalised playlist based on your listening history. News platforms leverage customer data to show the customer news stories that she is most likely to read. The data also equips media companies to predict future trends in the industry, thereby staying ahead of their competitors.
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
Those interested in a career in data and visualisation should explore the Bachelor’s degree in Journalism with a focus on Data, Analytics and Visualisation. In this course, students learn different ways of collecting, organising and categorizing data into engaging multimedia content.
--None--
BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) -Social Media and Search Engine Optimisation
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
Over the last decade, digitalisation has led to a drastic change in media consumption patterns and the media industry as a whole. Digitalisation has led to the collection of a large quantity of data that offers invaluable insights to media companies. The media industry is utilising big data to align with changing consumer expectations. Data analysis and visualisation have played a big role in disrupting the media and entertainment industry. Here’s how.
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) -Data, Analytics & Visualisation
Email Address
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media. The school gives graduates learning opportunities that include interacting with eminent journalists, access to state-of-the-art studios, employment-relevant training and unmatched global exposure, among others
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024