depending on the complexity of their work and the success of their projects.
Multinational Corporations vs. Local Companies
Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
:
for B.Pharma graduates who have strong communication skills and a knack for business.
20/09/2024
+91
The production and manufacturing sector offers solid career and
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
1. Retail and Hospital Pharmacist
12/09/2024
First Name
₹4 lakh to ₹8 lakh per annum
These professionals earn an average salary ranging from
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
These professionals start with an average salary of
₹3 lakh to ₹4 lakh per annum
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
at the entry-level, with the potential to earn significantly more with experience, particularly if they hold advanced degrees like an M.Pharma. or Ph.D.
Course Type
settings are among the most common career paths for B.Pharma graduates.
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
: ₹8 lakh to ₹10 lakh per annum
Please enter email address
Research Scientists:
Lecturers and Professors:
Average Pharmacist Salary Across Different Career Paths
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
job opportunities for B.Pharma graduates
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond. For those embarking on this career path, understanding the salary landscape is crucial for making informed decisions about their future.
*
Production Manager:
Retail Pharmacist:
For those who move into sales management, salaries can range from
For those interested in academia, teaching positions in pharmacy colleges offer a stable career path.
Conclusion
Factors Influencing B Pharmacy Salary in India
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
, there is significant potential for growth as you gain experience and specialize in your field.
Trending Post
M.Pharm Graduates
at the entry-level and increasing with experience.
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
, depending on experience and the size of the territory managed.
, with potential to earn more as you gain experience and take on larger responsibilities.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
4. Research and Development (R&D)
Pharmacists in retail and hospital
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Urban vs. Rural
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Entry-level lecturers typically earn between
MBA in Pharmaceutical Management
Submit
₹2.5 lakh to ₹4 lakh per annum
Select Course
of UPES.
Professionals in formulation development, who design and optimize drug delivery systems, also fall within this salary range, with the
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
Experience Level
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
3. Production and Manufacturing
Starting salaries for production managers range from
: ₹2.5 lakh to ₹4 lakh per annum
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
Quality Control (QC) and Quality Assurance (QA) Officers:
: Salaries range higher in cities
. With experience and additional qualifications, such as a Ph.D., salaries can rise to
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
: States with pharmaceutical companies, such as Gujarat and Maharashtra, tend to offer better pay
26/07/2024
Last Name
6. Academia and Teaching
possibility of higher earnings
Formulation Development:
Please enter mobile number
and exploring various career paths, B.Pharma graduates can maximize their earning potential and build a rewarding career in the pharmaceutical industry.
R&D is a field that offers significant intellectual challenge and the potential for high earnings.
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
Hospital Pharmacist:
2. Pharmaceutical Sales and Marketing
Research scientists can expect to earn between
04/10/2024
: Better salaries, bonuses, and benefits are available in MNCs
-- None --
In this blog, we’ll explore the factors that influence the average salary of B.Pharma. graduates in India and provide insights into what you can expect to earn across various career paths.
Mid-Career and Experienced Professionals
₹4 lakh to ₹6 lakh per annum
--None--
: ₹6 lakh to ₹12 lakh per annum
Type of Employer
UPES Editorial Team
Geographical Location
Regulatory affairs is another promising career path with competitive salaries.
Pharmaceutical sales & marketing is a lucrative career path
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
pursuing further education in pharmaceutical domain
, with potential for growth as you gain experience and specialize in specific areas of quality management.
: Salary is comparatively higher in Private sector
Medical Representatives:
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Published 24/09/2024
for entry-level positions. Experienced pharmacists can earn between
Sales Managers:
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Regulatory Affairs Specialists:
Entry-Level Salaries
These roles typically offer starting salaries between
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Private Sector vs. Public Sector
₹4 lakh to ₹7 lakh per annum
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
₹3 lakh to ₹5 lakh per annum
at the entry-level. With experience, especially in multinational companies or regions with complex regulatory environments, salaries can increase significantly.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Hospital pharmacists, who are involved in more clinical tasks and patient care, generally earn slightly more, with salaries ranging from
Regional Variations
5. Regulatory Affairs
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
or more for senior faculty positions.
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
: ₹4 lakh to ₹6 lakh per annum
In retail settings, such as chain or independent pharmacies, the average salary ranges from
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The average salary of B.Pharma. graduates in India varies widely depending on factors like geographic location, experience level, and type of employer. While starting salaries for B.Pharma. graduates generally range from
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
. However, this role often includes performance-based incentives and bonuses, which can significantly increase overall earnings.
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
₹6 lakh to ₹10 lakh per annum
Specialization and Additional Qualifications