:
Traditional Combustion Engines: With every range of car available, Traditional Combustion Engines are a popular choice when it comes to cost considerations.
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
1.
Traditional Combustion Engines: They are heavily dependent on gasoline and diesel for running, making them now non-friendly to the environment due to large Carbon dioxide emissions from the fossil fuels.
Challenges of HFCVs
Extended Driving Range
Traditional Combustion Engines: Refuelling them is much easier and this has been major advantage of them over EVs.
5. Cost Considerations
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
2. Energy Efficiency
HFCVs: Their refuelling time is much less than EVs, making them a better choice than EV in this regard.
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
European Infrastructure Support:
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Only new countries have HFCVs models with limited hydrogen fuelling stations, acting as potent limiting factors in the spread of HFCVs.
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
Energy Efficiency
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
With no carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen emissions, Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (HFCVs) produce no tailpipe emissions.
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
25/07/2024
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Water and Electricity are used to create hydrogen, making it a clean, renewable source of energy.
Conclusion
Call Me
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
HFCVs: HFCVs do experience energy loss during hydrogen production, storage, and conversion within the fuel cell.
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
4. Range and Performance
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Are Hydrogen Cars Safe?
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
Hyundai plans to release 21 hydrogen models by 2030, targeting 2 million global sales annually.
Easy on the road with 400-600 miles potential.
With these challenges in hand, expansion of HFCVs has been slow but enthusiastic, nonetheless.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
The construction cost of a single hydrogen fuel station typically ranges between 1-2 million USD. The higher initial investment is a major challenge in the expansion of market of HFCVs.
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
HFCVs can be 30% more efficient than other vehicles.
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
Become future-ready with our Advanced Engineering programs
Less Pollution
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Hydrogen production can use existing natural gas and electricity infrastructure.
Benefits of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles:
The Department of Energy announced $46 million to support hydrogen and fuel cell technology advancements.
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Since the high-pressure tanks in HFCVs are made to withstand even the most severe collisions without leaking or breaching, they are generally regarded as being just as safe as any other vehicle. Even if the remainder of the car were damaged in a collision, the hydrogen tanks and its hardware would probably survive, even though hydrogen skeptics frequently bring up the 1937 Hindenburg catastrophe. In the comparatively modest number of HFCVs sold to date, no injuries or fatalities related to the hydrogen components have been reported.
Infrastructure
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
U.S. Government Funding:
Zero Emissions
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
Before we jump into the future of Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (HFCVs), let us embark on a comparative study of EVs, Traditional Combustion Engines and HFCVs:
Say no to unnecessary time consumption with fast refuelling in HFCVs.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Quick Refuelling
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Rising Demand for BEVs and HEVs: There are many models and types of cars for BEVs and HEVs. Big Automotive industries like TESLA, BYD, and Volkswagen are focussing on production of BEVs and HEVs. So many options aren’t available for HFCVs, unfortunately!
Energy Diversity
Recent Trends in HFCVs:
Depending on the comparison, we can safely say HFCVs have solid advantages over both EVs and HFCVs, and with the right technological advancements and hydrogen production, we can expect good growth of HFCVs across all industries.
26/07/2024
Having the potential to revolutionise the automotive industry, Hydrogen-powered vehicles are potential alternatives to gasoline and diesel vehicles. Are you rethinking your vehicle choice? Have a look at the benefits of Hydrogen-powered vehicles for more details:
Last Name
EVs: EVs have been significant in reducing carbon prints as they run on battery power and produce zero emissions, however, they consume a lot of electricity, which often is derived from coal.
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
Hyundai's Hydrogen Initiatives:
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
Table of Contents:
EVs: EVs can run up to 300-400 miles. However, one needs to make sure there is a charging station in their route for smooth and steady journey
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
However, there are still some challenges to overcome, such as infrastructure and manufacturing costs. The automotive hydrogen fuel cell must also meet rigorous requirements, such as being able to start quickly in freezing conditions and being cost-effective.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Companies like Toyota, Hyundai, and Hyzon are positioned as major actors in the shift to greener logistics because of the continuous expansion, which demonstrates the potential of hydrogen fuel cells to lower emissions and increase sustainability in sectors dependent on heavy transportation. Hydrogen vehicles present a strong alternative to conventional gasoline and diesel vehicles because to their low emissions, quick refuelling periods, and longer driving range. The move to hydrogen-powered automobiles supports international initiatives to mitigate climate change and lessen reliance on fossil fuels.
Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles in the Automotive Industry:
Hydrogen-powered vehicles present an exciting alternative in the quest for sustainable transportation, combining the benefits of zero emissions with the convenience of rapid refuelling and long range. The benefits of HFCVs will grow with better funding, government investments, innovation, and reduced infrastructure costs.
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Mechanical Engineering program
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
EVs: Electricity stored in a battery is directly used by the motor thereby reducing energy conversion rates, making EVs more energy efficient than HFCVs.
EVs: Although the price of EVs have come down, battery replacement still remains an expensive affair.
Please enter last name
Challenges of HFCVs:
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Benefits of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Environmental Concerns:
EVs: EVs take a lot of time in charging, making this an important factor to consider especially when travelling long distances.
Since the only by-product is water, HFCVs hardly cause pollution.
HFCVs: HPVs, particularly those using fuel cells, emit only water vapor and heat as byproducts. This makes them as environmentally friendly as EVs when hydrogen is produced using renewable energy sources.
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses. You can say goodbye to cumbersome charging process of EVs with Hydrogen-powered vehicles due to their reliability and quick refuelling. Isn’t that something worth looking forward to? We are witnessing constant improvement in hydrogen technology and infrastructure to foster better availability of sustainable, zero-fuel emissions across all sectors. Let us explore what lies in the future of hydrogen-powered vehicles, and what can we expect in near future. Keep reading!
Comparison with Electric and Traditional Combustion Engines
As alternatives to gasoline and diesel, HFCVs help bring down money spent on oil imports.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Our counsellors are just a click away.
Published 18/12/2024
By 2035, the automobile industry's use of hydrogen is anticipated to reach a value of 353 thousand units, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 28.3%.
For those aspiring to excel in the automotive industry, pursuing a BTech degree provides essential specialized knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience. UPES Dehradun’s
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Traditional Combustion Engines: Due to easy refuelling options, Traditional Combustion Engines have been an easier option for long travels.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
3. Refuelling Time
UPES Admission Enquiry
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
Toyota and BMW Partnership:
“I believe that water will one day be employed as a fuel, that hydrogen and oxygen which constitute it, used singly or together, will furnish an inexhaustible source of heat and light, of an intensity of which coal is not capable.”- Jules Verne
Reduced Oil Imports
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles in the Automotive Industry
HFCVs: HFCVs are an expensive choice due to high costs in infrastructure, hydrogen production, and more. However, with tech innovations, there is an expectation of their prices going down.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
Traditional Combustion Engines: Of the three, Traditional Combustion Engines are least energy efficient as a lot of energy is lost during fuel combustion.
The EU is investing heavily to expand hydrogen refuelling networks across member states.
offers a comprehensive curriculum designed to equip students with the expertise needed to thrive in this competitive field. ENROL TODAY!
privacy policy
They are enhancing their collaboration for standardized hydrogen fuel cell components, aiming for a 2028 vehicle launch.
Hydrogen Fuel Cell Vehicles (HFCVs) have seen notable advancements recently, reflecting a growing commitment to sustainable transportation. Key developments include:
18/02/2025
HFCVs: Be prepared to get around 400-600 miles with HFCVs, making them a better, cleaner option.
Know More
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?