5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
Intellectual Property Rights
First Name
Investment and Trade Law
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
One of the main advantages of pursuing a BA LL.B. (Hons.) course is that you can choose a specialization that matches your passion and aptitude. There are many specializations available in BA LL.B. (Hons.), but some of the most popular ones are:
Published 08/07/2024
Please enter email address
: This specialization focuses on the study of the legal aspects of investment and trade, such as the promotion and protection of foreign direct investment, the regulation and facilitation of international trade, the settlement of disputes arising from investment and trade agreements, the role and functions of international organizations and institutions, etc. It also covers the various laws and agreements that regulate the investment and trade regime, such as the Foreign Exchange Management Act, the World Trade Organization, the Bilateral Investment Treaties, etc.
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
Taxation Law
Conclusion
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Corporate Law
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
: This specialization covers the study of the legal aspects of disruptive technologies, such as the emergence and impact of new and innovative technologies, such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, biotechnology, nanotechnology, etc. on the society and the law. It also covers the various legal and ethical issues and challenges posed by these technologies, such as the protection of privacy, data security, liability, regulation, etc.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
What are the Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)?
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
: This specialization focuses on the study of the legal aspects of intellectual property, such as the creation, protection, and enforcement of the rights over the intangible assets, such as inventions, designs, trademarks, patents, copyrights, etc. It also covers the various laws and treaties that regulate the intellectual property regime, such as the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement, the Paris Convention, the Berne Convention, etc.
: This specialization deals with the study of the substantive and procedural aspects of criminal law, such as the general principles of criminal liability, the classification and definition of offences, the stages and modes of trial, the rights and duties of the accused, the victim, and the state, etc. It also covers the various branches of criminal law, such as the Indian Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Indian Evidence Act, etc.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
: This specialization deals with the study of the legal aspects of taxation, such as the principles and theories of taxation, the sources and types of taxes, the administration and assessment of taxes, the exemptions and deductions, the appeals and revisions, etc. It also covers the various laws and rules that govern the taxation system, such as the Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Customs Act, the Central Excise Act, etc.
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
BA LL.B. (Hons.) is a comprehensive and specialized law course that offers you the opportunity to pursue your passion and interest in law. It also opens up multiple career avenues for you in the legal field and beyond. However, choosing a specialization in BA LL.B. (Hons.) is a crucial decision that requires careful consideration and research. You should also look for a reputed and recognized college or university that offers a quality BA LL.B. (Hons.) course with the specialization of your choice. UPES School of Law is one such college that can help you to fulfill your dream of becoming a successful legal professional.
Last Name
Disruptive Technologies Law
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Constitutional Law
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
: This specialization covers the study of the legal aspects of energy and environment, such as the production, distribution, and consumption of energy, the conservation and management of natural resources, the protection and preservation of the environment, the prevention and control of pollution, the mitigation and adaptation of climate change, etc. It also covers the various laws and policies that govern the energy and environmental sector, such as the Electricity Act, the Environment Protection Act, the National Green Tribunal Act, etc.
Banking and Insolvency Law
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
Criminal Law
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Industrial Relations and Constitution Law
Please enter last name
: This specialization deals with the study of the legal aspects of industrial relations and constitution law, such as the rights and duties of employers and employees, the formation and recognition of trade unions, the collective bargaining and dispute resolution, the strikes and lockouts, the social security and welfare, etc. It also covers the various laws and constitutional provisions that govern the industrial relations and constitution law, such as the Industrial Disputes Act, the Trade Unions Act, the Minimum Wages Act, the Article 19 and 21 of the Constitution, etc.
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
What is BA LL.B. (Hons.)?
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
: This specialization covers the study of the legal aspects of business and commerce, such as the formation, management, and dissolution of companies, the rights and liabilities of shareholders, directors, and creditors, the regulation and governance of corporate affairs, the mergers and acquisitions, the corporate social responsibility, etc. It also covers the various laws and regulations that govern the corporate sector, such as the Companies Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, the Competition Act, etc
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.). But what does it mean and what are the benefits of choosing this course over other law courses? In this blog, we will answer these questions and explore the various specializations that you can opt for in BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Energy and Environmental Law
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
BA LL.B. (Hons.) stands for Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Legislative Law (Honours). It is a five-year integrated law course that combines the study of humanities and law subjects. Unlike a regular BA LL.B. course, which offers a general degree in law, BA LL.B. (Hons.) allows you to specialize in a specific area of law and gain an in-depth knowledge of it. This gives you an edge over other law graduates and prepares you for a rewarding career in the legal field.
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
: This specialization focuses on the study of the fundamental principles and provisions of the Indian Constitution, such as the basic structure, fundamental rights, directive principles, federalism, judicial review, etc. It also covers the interpretation and application of the Constitution by the Supreme Court and the High Courts, as well as the constitutional amendments and challenges.
: This specialization deals with the study of the legal aspects of banking and insolvency, such as the regulation and supervision of banking activities, the rights and obligations of bankers and customers, the recovery and resolution of debts, the liquidation and bankruptcy of individuals and entities, etc. It also covers the various laws and authorities that govern the banking and insolvency sector, such as the Banking Regulation Act, the Reserve Bank of India Act, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, etc.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022