Diana George
Thus was born W&W Organics, with the name being derived from the meanings of the founders’ names – Aakansha, which means ‘Wish’ and Pratiksha, which means ‘Wait’. Their venture was thus named ‘W&W Organics’ or ‘Wait and Wishes Organics’, Aakansha reveals. “We are a three-member team. I handle the production, Pratiksha looks after marketing while, our Director, Vaibhav Bhatt, deals with the scaling and sales of the product,” she says.
Trending Post
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
+91
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Products by W&W Organics
Aakansha says she is extremely thankful and grateful to be a part of UPES as she feels it gives one a lot of opportunities to prove oneself. “We are encouraged to think out of the box. The place and the work environment transform you completely to be the best version of yourself,” she adds.
Please enter first name
Published 26/04/2022
Please enter mobile number
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
Email Address
Mobile Number
“I once visited my friend Pratiksha’s farmhouse in Dehradun and saw that they grew everything, from vegetables to rice and wheat. I liked the idea and that is when we thought of soap-making. We had to do a lot of research on how to make soaps from vegetation, plants and flowers. Finally, after a lot of hard work, we had a formulation for an organic soap which did no harm to the skin. It was soothing and since that day, bathing has been a pleasant experience for me,” Aakansha says.
Tags
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
-- None --
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Submit
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
Please select Course
--None--
of UPES.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Subscribe
“I came to know about Runway from a colleague. The team at Runway helped bring my idea into fruition. I got every kind of support from Mr Vaibhav Mishra, Mr Mohit Nagpal and others at Runway. They helped me prepare my pitch deck, the logo design and gave me financial advice.” Aakansha says.
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician in the Department of Chemical Engineering at UPES, had always been on the lookout for a skincare solution that would not harm her skin. Taking care of her naturally-sensitive skin proved to be a big challenge for her as nothing that she tried ever worked. Be it Ayurveda or Korean skincare routine, Aakansha’s skin never recovered from the damage inflicted by harmful chemicals present in the store-bought products used by her, until she visited a friend’s house in Dehradun.
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Select Course
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
the
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
While seeking funding and financial support for her venture that was still taking baby steps, Aakansha heard about UPES’ start-up incubator Runway from a colleague.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The young entrepreneur says she will be focusing on making a product that will be environment-friendly, and therefore her goal is to make soap bars which will come wrapped in paper, rather than plastic. She is also not a fan of liquid soap as they come in plastic bottles.
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
She adds, “Runway is a great platform for people who have ideas and need help or guidance for their next steps. We get to interact with financial and legal advisors as well as other start-up founders who guide us on our journey.”
Course Type
privacy policy
“The idea is to make organic soap bars in paper packaging. ‘By nature, for nature’ is our motto. There are obvious benefits to opting for a bar of soap when it comes to protecting the environment. The big plastic bottles for liquid soap are the type of waste that is avoidable. They are unnecessary and make for heavier transport, leading to a bigger carbon footprint,” Aakansha says.
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Last Name
The product will be launched in three categories, for men, women, and children. The soap will be fully organic and made with natural ingredients.