student achievements
, founded ‘Anime Devta’ to provide unique anime and graphic merchandise at pocket-friendly prices.
Diana George
In the early 2000s, children and young adults eagerly awaited the weekend to watch their favourite Japanese anime television series Pokémon. Short for Pocket Monsters, Pokémon is credited with making anime familiar and a mainstream success around the world. The fandom was such that in the United States, the two highest-grossing anime films were both Pokémon films. In India, along with the series, Pokémon games and merchandise became a mega-hit.
Trending Post
Anime
and Instagram handle
+91
Startup
First Name
Published 13/04/2022
, has always been fascinated by anime and wanted to build a brand the youth could afford. He says, “From 14 to 18 years of age, anime like Naruto and Onepiece taught me lessons like ‘never give up’ and ‘hard work beats talent’. I have been a YouTube creator for almost two years. I used to give my opinions on different anime, review them, and promote anime merch of other companies on my channel. After analysing the pros and cons of India’s top anime merch companies, I decided to make a brand of my own. Devta is short for Dev Taneja. The goal was to provide people with India’s most affordable and best quality anime merchandise.”
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
However, it was Mowgli from ‘The Jungle Book’ created by Japan-based Nippon animation that introduced anime to India. Since then, the love for anime has only grown among people. Shows like Attack on Titan, Naruto and Dragon Ball Z are popular among the youngsters. This popularity has created a rise in demand for anime merchandise.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
Anime Devta Merchandise (Source: Instagram @anime_devta)
Tags
The start-up markets its products through its website
-- None --
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
animedevta.com
Runway Incubator
UPES Stars
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
While several inland stores sell anime accessories, their prices are higher than what an average teen can afford. Sensing the need for affordable anime merchandise, UPES students Dev Taneja from
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
By
Please enter email address
the
Dev, who is currently pursuing
School of Design
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
so there is barely any marketing cost involved.
*
@anime_devta
privacy policy
and Himangshu Goswami from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-18U0H4oxNc
A subscriber email already exists.
School of Engineering
Ekta Kashyap
Please enter last name
However, there are already well-established brands in this sector. How does Anime Devta differentiate itself from the competition? “Our priority is to ‘serve’ people. Our main audience is students from age 15 to 24. Most of them are dependent on their parents for monthly expenses. And purchasing anime merch from renowned brands in India can take months of pocket money. We have cut the existing market rates by 50-60% while maintaining better quality than many anime merch companies in the country,” says Dev.
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
(L-R) Dev Taneja and Higmanshu Goswami
Last Name