– the more the leaders communicate with their people, the more it fosters a community of mutual valuing of communication.
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
Choose channels of communication wisely.
02/01/2025
First Name
Be an empathetic listener.
School for Life
https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/focus/executive-transitions/elevate-leadership-communication-strategies.html
Published 27/02/2023
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
https://sprigghr.com/blog/leaders/the-importance-of-leadership-communication/
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Leaders should share ideas, plans, thoughts and keep the communication going. A good leader is one who when faced with the choice between overcommunication and under-communication, will always choose the former.
https://blog.circleloop.com/companies-with-great-internal-communications
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Communicate, Communicate, Communicate.
Image by drobotdean on Freepik
Please enter email address
https://www.grammarly.com/business/learn/effective-communication-in-leadership/
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
A good leader is one who fosters an environment for
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
UPES leadership
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
hearing others is sometimes more important than speaking. Interestingly, Starbucks discovered new menu items after they heard some of their employees talking about them. Following quick research, and within 24 hours, Starbucks came up with a new menu including those items on the list. For leaders then, listening might well be the `star’ skill to have the `bucks’ roll in.
, engages with people, and develops a rapport with them. Open door policy, family outings with staff, a quick discussion over a meal, a coffee break with staff or simply getting to know the personal side of people; all these help break the ice and develop a bond between staff and leaders.
Empathy is almost a non-negotiable for good leadership. People want to be acknowledged, heard and respected and the more the leader empathises with their feelings, the more valued they will feel.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Communication is not a one-way street;
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
to have the desired impact and make sure to make the messaging clear. The more clear the messaging by the leader, the lesser the chances of confusion in the minds of the staff. Being concise has advantages too. For instance, meetings are a regular mode of internal communications but long meetings can at times be counter productive. Staff may lose interest or may want to go back home for some family commitment and are therefore distracted, so keeping the meeting short is the way to go for making your communication effective. Research indicates that our attention span is between 10-18 minutes, so innovative organisations like TED keep their meetings for a maximum time limit of 18 minutes.
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
In these modern times, the need for connectivity between a leader and their customers and employees both is vital and, therefore, both internal and external communications are critical to produce worthy business results
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
https://hbr.org/2016/03/two-thirds-of-managers-are-uncomfortable-communicating-with-employees
A subscriber email already exists.
In a nutshell, leadership is all about leading a group of diverse individuals towards a common goal. Excellent communication starts at the top and a good leader is one who prioritises how they communicate with their colleagues to ensure that they stay motivated and perform to their best potential.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Effective communication skills
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
Internal Communications:
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
https://hbr.org/2022/11/how-great-leaders-communicate
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
According to a 2016 study by Interact Studio and Harris Poll, “69% of managers say there is something about their role as a leader that makes them uncomfortable communicating with their employees.”
Please enter mobile number
Disagreements are normal,
External Communications: T
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
Why is communication important for leaders?
free and open communication
UPES Editorial Team
Importance of communication skills for leadership
Know when to use verbal or non-verbal communication. Communication is not just about what you say to people, but it is also about how you say it and the way you conduct yourself. To ensure you are conveying the right message, focus on your body language and tone – it can make a huge difference to the way your communication is absorbed by the audience. This is true for all communication, but for leaders more so, making eye contact with your team members, smiling as you speak to them, addressing them by first name; all these techniques convey warmth and trust.
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
In these modern times, the need for connectivity between a leader and their customers and employees both is vital and, therefore, both internal and external communications are critical to produce worthy business results.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
These are messages, come from the leaders, directed towards the employees, with the purpose of cultivating a sense of trust and ownership in the workplace to keeping employees engaged and motivated.
The root of the problem vests in the misconception about the true meaning of the term `leadership’; perhaps in the mind of leaders themselves too. Leadership is not a synonym for power or control; it’s about acknowledging the fact that any organisation, be it for profit or not for profit, small or large, cannot achieve their mission by virtue of the credentials of their leader alone. It’s about the human capital: all those human elements in the organisation who together with their leader strive towards a common goal. It might be apt to say that true leaders derive their power from the people they lead, and they will be able to lead people only when they can effectively communicate with them and inspire them to be on the same page as themselves.
Lead by example
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
https://www.justworks.com/blog/easy-ways-improve-communication-workplace
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
How to hone the essential communication skills that leaders must possess?
https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/leadership-communication
Please select Course
23/08/2024
hese consist of messages related to a company’s culture, core values, vision and mission statement and are significant to the key external stakeholders including customers and strategic partners.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
According to a recent article titled `How Great Leaders Communicate’ published in November 2022 in the Harvard Business Review, transformational leaders are exceptional communicators and effective communication skills are a prerequisite to becoming a successful leader. This brings us to the need to deliberate over the why, what and how to effective communication.
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
but if the leader stays respectful and exhibits the willingness to adapt, the battle is half won. Be receptive to feedback and, if possible, integrate it into future plans. This will build trust among the workforce. But sometimes all feedback may not fit in with the organisation’s needs: In such case, a good leader must be transparent about the reasons, yet voice their value for the feedback provided.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Tailor the message according to the audience
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
References:
18/02/2025
17/09/2024