5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Learner-friendly environment
+91
It was a wonderful opportunity for me to study in a foreign country. I met people from different origins and ethnicities. The experience taught me to overcome obstacles such as arranging my accommodation to understanding a country’s rules, regulations, customs, and way of life.
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
Four UPES law students – Manya Jain, Juhi Mathur, Kadari Niharika and Trisha Agarwala – went on a semester abroad program at The University of Law, London, on full scholarship. They describe their unforgettable journey of several firsts, diversity on campus, and gaining a whole new perspective on law and life in general
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Semester Abroad Program
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
From L-R: Manya Jain, Kadari Niharika, Juhi Mathur, Trisha Agarwala
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
The academic journey at ULaw was refreshing. The format of teaching was unique. Working in groups, collective problem-solving, and the overall collaborative effort of completing workshops and classroom tasks made the entire learning experience exciting. No student can fall behind on tasks or learning as studying in groups brings in a higher sense of confidence in terms of legal problem-solving. I observed my evolution as a student, and I cannot wait to apply all the takeaways back at my university.
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
12/08/2024
*
Thank you, UPES and ULaw!
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Students at ULaw are encouraged to work together and share their experiences, opinions, and ideas with the purpose of growing collectively. This fosters a greater capacity for brainstorming and tackling an issue with a holistic approach. Despite the high frequency of tasks, I made sure to complete them before deadline, which led to my own development as a learner. The resources such as the student guidebook, reading list, and access to a wide range of online material, helped in enriching our knowledge. The faculty were highly qualified, approachable, and warm and often shared their personal experiences, making the subject more captivating and engaging.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
All about collaboration
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
UPES students who went for Semester Abroad Program to ULaw, London, had this to say
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
I gained a new perspective on law and interesting insights on dealing with a particular situation.
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Kadari Niharika:
Published 20/12/2022
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Manya Jain:
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
Juhi Mathur:
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
A semester abroad program can transform students higher education experience in several ways, turning them into extraordinary individuals. At UPES, several students get the opportunity to study a semester abroad at some of the most prestigious universities in the world. Four UPES law students – Manya Jain, Juhi Mathur, Kadari Niharika and Trisha Agarwala – went on a semester abroad program at The University of Law (ULaw), London, on full scholarship. Here, they recount their journey and their takeaways from the trip.
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
I was truly fortunate to be a part of this semester abroad program and experience a city as beautiful and as breath-taking as London. It is a city filled with ambition as well as unexplored beauty and history, and it brought to life the Disney film scenes that I had grown up watching.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
At ULaw, learning, teaching, and assessments mostly happen online. Students are driven more towards reading and self-study. There is a highly systematic and planned structure of lectures. We are given student guides before a lecture and reading material before a workshop session. It is a different experience overall academically, and gets overwhelming sometimes. However, there are also endless ways here to unwind, learn new things, make new friends, and have some unforgettable adventures.
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
There is nothing to not love about London. I am incredibly lucky to have been a part of this semester abroad program. ULaw adopts a student-friendly approach to everything. The learning structure is interesting, and everyone is so welcoming. Although I was already familiar with my subjects and the jurisprudence surrounding them, the statutes, precedents, and applications here were entirely new. Being here was like reliving my fresher year again in my final year. I cannot be grateful enough to my college for arranging this and choosing me to be a part of it.
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
Trisha Agarwala:
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
A culture of growing collectively
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
A spectrum of experiences
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
The beginning of my semester abroad was a full 24 hours of firsts. It was my first time travelling alone internationally, coming to a country with no relatives, family, or friends. And London has an altogether different aura. There is diversity, not only in the city but at the university too. I met other international students from different parts of the world, who were helpful and accommodating. There is a strange sense of unity when you realise that less than a day ago, we all walked away from the comforts of our homes, to embark on a journey on our own, yet we are all in this together.
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
upes school of law
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022