These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
Diana George
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
Trending Post
Select Course
+91
happy holi
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
One of the most-celebrated festivals in India, Holi marks the end of winter and arrival of spring. The ritual starts by lighting a bonfire prior to the day of Holi, symbolising the triumph of good over evil. The festival of colours was much-awaited by students, who celebrated it on campus after two years. Here’s what they had to say about the celebrations on campus:
Kartik Khanna, MBA Logistics and Supply Chain Management student: “This is one festival that students have always looked forward to, planning it well in advance. On the day of Holi, students gather at the UPES hostel ground where everyone merrily plays with colours and water. Students dance on some famous songs as they enjoy celebrating with their friends.”
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Tags
-- None --
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
Published 17/03/2022
UPES Admission Enquiry
festival is celebrated
at the campus with great enthusiasm and zest. Holi is planned on a large scale at the campus. The authorities always make sure that it is a happy and safe Holi for each one of us. With vibrant colours, water balloons, exotic dishes, rejuvenating drinks, dance and music, we await this delightful festival. I cannot thank UPES enough for all the experiences that it has added to the book of memories of my college life.”
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
of UPES.
Subscribe
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
By
Jigyasa Pahwa, BA LLB Corporate Law student: “Covered in colours everyone looks the same, everybody is equal, and strangers readily become friends. UPES is my home away from home, not to mention that each
From splashing colours to dancing their hearts out, UPES students celebrated Holi on campus after two years with full enthusiasm while authorities made sure that it was a happy and safe Holi for every one
Please enter email address
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
the
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Mansha Dhingra
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
holi at UPES campus
Please Select Course Type
*
Rebecca Mishra, BA LLB Criminal Law student: “The general perception towards festivals is that they have a predefined ritual. In the context of Holi, it is playing with gulal and eating hot fritters while dancing to rambunctious dhol beats. Well, UPES does all that and more! UPES students celebrate the festival with such gusto that that no one misses their near and dear ones. It is like having a small family away from home.”
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Ekta Kashyap
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Please enter last name
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Last Name
Written by the UPES Editorial Team