Diana George
Trending Post
Calling the fiesta a “big hit”, Jenisha says that seeing so many different people enjoying local Nepalese food made her very happy. “People loved our food so much that they came for second and third servings,” she quips.
UPES hosts over 60 exchange students from 27 different countries and the event was organised to celebrate the cultural diversity on campus and help foster unity through the medium of food
+91
His dishes were sold out within minutes and he was elated with the positive feedback he received from students and faculty alike.
Mexico’s Carlota to Gambia’s Chu Yassa: Campus celebrates diversity with global culinary feast
What is the Difference Between a Software Engineer and a Software Developer?
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Software engineer and developer are two interrelated terms and many people would think there is no difference between the two.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Anusha Mirza, an exchange student from UAE in 3rd year Product Design, served delectable Chicken Shawarma and Hummus to the long queue of visitors thronging her stall.
PhD scholar Armel M Nganda (right) and his friend treat UPES Chancellor Sunil Rai (centre) to Cameroonian dishes
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
UPES offers ample opportunities for students to experience and develop a global outlook. The Department of International Affairs at UPES has meticulously chalked out avenues through which students get international exposure
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Email Address
Mobile Number
In a bid to celebrate the cultural diversity on its campus, UPES recently organised its first international food festival on April 24. Exchange students from countries such as Mexico, Bhutan, Ghana, South Sudan, and Nepal, among others, participated in the event.
She enjoyed making the dishes, she says. “It’s been good fun participating in the international food festival. We all enjoyed making Shawarma and Hummus. We hope to participate in another event soon,” she adds.
Tags
-- None --
Submit
6 ways a student exchange program can help you in your career
Course Type
Published 09/05/2023
--None--
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
According to Dr Sheetal Khanka, Deputy Director, Department of International Affairs (DIA), UPES, the event was intended to be a “showcase of culinary excellence” that would help promote cultural unity on campus.
Subscribe
Select Course
By a Correspondent
Pranav Khalikar
Related Articles
Syed Mohd Raza Taqvi
By
“It was an opportunity to learn about the cultures and traditions of different countries through the medium of local cuisines,” she added.
The incredible gala received positive response and earned so many rave reviews that the DIA is now considering making it a biannual event.
“We definitely would like to do this event more often. With the kind of positive feedback we have received, we will organise it two times every year, one in each semester,” Dr Sheetal confirms.
Please enter email address
Why gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever
My class at Berkeley Haas had students from all 7 continents of the world
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
the
A student exchange program is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, which transforms your academic future. It makes you self-reliant and enhances the prospects of your employability
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
One of the many stalls at the International Food Festival at UPES Dehradun
Jenisha Neupane of Nepal is in the final semester of her LL.M. course at UPES. She served her country’s “go-to snack” Wai Wai Sadeko at the festival.
Please Select Course Type
*
The novel idea was floated by some of the 60+ exchange students at UPES who felt that an event like a food festival could help connect different cultures on campus.
It was an enriching experience for us as we could showcase Cameroonian culinary know-how,” says PhD scholar Armel M Nganda who prepared two traditional meals Ndoleh and Chicken Sauce with Fried Irish Potatoes. Armel says he was pleasantly surprised to discover the similarities between Indian and Cameroonian food.
“I would like to thank UPES and the Department of International Affairs for the international food festival,” Jenisha says. “Personally, for me it was a bonding opportunity with my Indian friends who volunteered to help me before and during the festival. All the participants had a gala time presenting their dishes. We got to taste numerous different flavours in a day,” she adds.
internationality
Jenisha Neupane (right) and her batchmates serve staple Nepalese snack Wai Wai Sadeko to visitors
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
The idea immediately found a lot of backers, and a series of meetings and brainstorming sessions later, a plan had been put in place to bring the idea to fruition. With support from different stakeholders at the university, the event was held with much fanfare in the last week of April.
Mouth-watering fares included Kewa Datshi and Fried Rice of Bhutan, Wai Wai Sadeko of Nepal, Swahili Buns of Ghana, South Sudan’s Cassava Leaves, Cameroon’s Ndoleh, Chicken Sauce and Fried Potatoes, Mexico’s Carlota and Gambia’s Chu Yassa.
“The event was an amazing bonding platform for all UPES students, staff, faculty, and acknowledged the diversity we have. The international students received encouragement from everyone and their culinary skills were much appreciated. The UPES students got to know more about various cultures. Everyone enjoyed the food, music, songs, and dance celebrations during the event,” she adds before signing off.
Last Name
Some highlights of my journey at Berkeley Haas Global Access Program and the transformative impact it has had on my personal and professional growth