Aircraft can be fixed-wing (wings do not rotate) or rotary-wing (such as helicopters; their lift is generated by the propeller).
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Becoming ‘Aatmanirbhar’ in fighter aircraft technology
flight controller
However, let us pray and hope that such a situation doesn’t arise.
From the engineering point of view, any external mounted missiles or bombs create external drag and resistance. Because of this, the engine power may not be adequate to take your manoeuvrability or a sudden turn as and when it is required during a mission. Once all of this goes into the belly of the aircraft, the surface becomes practically clean, and the aerodynamic profile of the aircraft comes under the designer, allowing him/her to optimise the performance during the flight.
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
weapon crew
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
Course Type
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Chances of two countries going on a full-fledged war like 1971
Please enter email address
This quantum jump was neither a generational leap nor a dive that could have been ignored. That is why an in-between definition was created called the four-and-a-half generation.
fifth-generation aircraft
Rafale’s boost to India’s air dominance
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
As a team, individuals forget their own identity and make the mission successful. The team comprises of the following:
12/08/2024
Cost of flight and weapons are the other two factors that help in selecting a certain aircraft.
01/10/2024
25/07/2024
. You must have heard about ‘Operation Balakot’. One lady flight controller on the ground was guiding the pilot using the flight control radar that shows the entire sky for about 200 km ensuring that the pilot remains unhurt
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
Technicality:
Missions are also defined based on this classification. Most of the lightweight aircraft have a single engine; whereas the heavyweight aircraft have two engines to give an additional thrust and surplus fuel consumption.
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
who risks his life every time he flies
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
The length of Rafale is 15.30 metre; its range is 3,700 km, is immune to radar jamming, and can climb up to 50,000 feet (commercial aircraft are permitted to go between 30,000 and 35,000 km). A twin-jet fighter aircraft, it can carry loads of up to 9,500 kg. It has an air-to-air meteor missile, can strike targets 100 km away; has an air-to-surface scalp missile, and can strike stationary objects. It has cannon with 2,500 rounds per minute, capable of carrying nuclear weapons, a radar warning receiver, and cold engine start capability. It can operate from high-altitude bases.
India has around 500 engineers who can be called people with knowledge of design and development. This number is inadequate. To that extent, it is also the responsibility of the educational institutes to create qualified manpower. Industry and education should go hand-in-hand.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
(also known as the parachute folding crew)
In the case of the fifth-generation aircraft, most of the weapons are stored inside the bay. We just cannot say what they are carrying. When a missile is to be fired or a bomb is to be dropped, that specific bay will open and that particular payload will get detached or launched. This gives an immense lead in terms of surprising the enemy with the available armoury.
When an aircraft wants to return after the completion of a bombing or an interception mission, it switches on the afterburner to leave the enemy territory quickly. In such case, the aircraft becomes more susceptible because of the high temperature of the gases that get exhausted.
Tonnage:
In India, we have a program called Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA), to develop
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Choosing an aircraft for a mission
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
(the late 1980s and into 1990s). It is not a fifth-generation aircraft. The difference between the two generations is the active electronic surveillance that was incorporated in the newly-built fourth-generation aircraft, which enhanced self-protection and detection of enemies.
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
The team behind it all
Classification of aircraft
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
fighter pilot
A subscriber email already exists.
Naval aviation:
on the ground and the
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Dr. Ramanarayanan begins the session with a piece of advice for the students. “We all agree that knowledge is power. You should orient yourself to gain maximum knowledge from whatever source is available. For a good practising engineer, only bookish knowledge is not enough; what matters is how best you interpret the data available with you to make meaningful conclusions and headways in technical problems.”
This is a major technological jump in terms of the creation and maintenance of the stealth of the aircraft. The structure of the aircraft ensures that its radar signature is minimal, making it difficult for an enemy to detect a fifth-generation aircraft, including into his territory for an attack.
26/07/2024
was used between the 1940s and the 1950s. These aircraft did not have radars for self-defence. They had machine guns, cannons and hand-guided bombs. They were sub-sonic (flying at a speed less than the speed of sound.)
UAV:
Nuclear-armed countries going on a full-fledged war will be the end of the game. Since the end results are known, the governments of each country and the bureaucracies and those involved in decision-making will think several times before going to war. Even in such a situation though, India is braced up – we are a nuclear triad. We have nuclear weapons on the ground; we can carry nuclear weapons in the air and submarines.
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
He was addressing a web talk on ‘Rafale: An Advanced Multirole Combat Aircraft’ organised by UPES.
Generation of fighter aircraft
Please enter mobile number
checks the aircraft for performance and safety, certifying that the aircraft is eligible to fly
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
It is all together with a new class. The best pilots in the world are those who fly aircraft onboard an aircraft carrier. I got the opportunity to fly in one of the trainer aircraft. Our aircraft carrier was looking like a matchbox. I asked the pilot, “Are we going to land in this matchbox?” He said, “Yes”.
fifth and sixth-generation fighter aircraft.
The other domain is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) used for surveillance, weapon delivery, and carrying out civil operations.
These aircraft are stealthy. If you see aircraft up to the four-and-a-half generation, most of their weapons are mounted externally. You can see what all missiles and bombs they are carrying; the payload is visible, practically exposing the weaponry and power.
-- None --
In my opinion, it is most unlikely. Gone are the days of one country winning over another. That option does not exist. Each country today can effectively create a painful situation for the other without achieving the ultimate victory.
When this experiment was conducted by the government of India, the US government took a serious objection, declined military cooperation, and refused to send the engines back to India after maintenance. See the situation: We paid for the engine, its maintenance, and the charges for lifting the engine from Bangalore to Boston, but they refused to return the engine. This is arm-twisting, which can happen if you do not have sufficient technology.
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
The supercruise feature in the fifth-generation aircraft allows sustained supersonic flight by using the main control of the power plant, without switching on the afterburner.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Rafale
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Coming specifically to fighter aircraft, every generation depends upon the technology available during that time. The
Generally, the exhaust of the engine leaves a distinctive mark as high-temperature gases come out. This heat signature has been effectively managed in the fifth-generation aircraft using the serpentine design. The inlet and the outlet of the aircraft engine are practically sunk into the aircraft itself, preventing the enemy to find out that an aircraft is approaching it based on the temperature profile of the engine.
UPES Editorial Team
The aircraft should have a long life cycle; it should be able to perform throughout its life with the same effectiveness. There is essential maintenance that needs to be done to keep the aircraft flying as if it was bought yesterday. So, maintenance cost is a predominant factor.
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
Engineering
ground crew
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
flight test engineer
DRDO has created a Centre for Propulsion Technology, which is a multi-institutional collaborative research centre. Any academic institution which has the professional competency to take up the technological problems in propulsion technology, to begin with, can pick up a DRDO-funded project from the centre, complete it and deliver it back. From UPES, if there are faculty or PhD scholars who are interested to take up fundamental problems related to fighter aircraft, they can approach them.
An F-22 Raptor, which is supposed to be the most modern aircraft, is an example of a fifth-generation aircraft. It was introduced in 2005. India and Russia together developed the
second-generation aircraft.
“Any microsecond mistake in any of the control system actions would have taken the rovers from Mars to maybe Saturn,” points Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT), Ministry of Defence, Govt. of India, as he explains to the audience about the intricacies of engineering marvels.
Dr. Ramanarayanan has contributed immensely to defence, research, development, and technology management during his illustrious career of over 36 years. He received the ‘Scientist of the Year Award’ in 2003 from the then Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh and the ‘Technological Leadership Award’ in 2015 from the Defence Minister of India. In addition, he has received several honours and citations from various professional societies and academic institutions.
Ekta Kashyap
Depending upon the tonnage of the aircraft (which also includes their payload), they are grouped into three categories: Light combat aircrafts weighing below 10 tonnes (such as ‘Tejas’); medium weight category ranging between 10 and 20 tonnes; above 20 tonnes are heavy-weight aircraft like Rafael and Su-30.
first-generation fighter aircraft
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Please enter last name
based on the Sukhoi model. However, it could not go into production due to financial constraints.
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Thereafter, every generation of fighter aircraft had a defined technological upgrade in terms of avionics structure, stealth, and propulsion.
In 2018, a presentation was made by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to the government. It showed that the cost of the projects in the pipeline (as of 2018) for manufacturing of engines for different requirements of India, would be around two lakh forty thousand crore, which would be given to foreign countries for manufacturing these engines.
The
Rafale belongs to the four-and-a-half generation
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
If we can invest even 50% of that cost into our country by creating adequate manufacturing facilities, infrastructure, and trained manpower and put them in place, we will be able to save a huge amount of foreign exchange being paid to other countries. We will also be able to create ample facilities to start manufacturing in the future. A white paper has been submitted to the government in this regard.
24/01/2025
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over
Email Address
flight clearance crew
and the
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
*
Seven months later in January 2004, two rovers – Spirit and Opportunity – landed on Mars in separate locations.
In the next one hour, he meticulously details the evolution of fighter aircraft in terms of their role, design, and capabilities. Excerpts:
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Role:
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
How can UPES contribute?
UPES Admission Enquiry
The classification of aircraft in the military domain depends on several characteristics such as:
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
For example, when we were trying to develop the ‘Tejas’ aircraft in the 90s for the Pokhran explosion, we had purchased 404 engines from the Americans. They were sent back to the US for periodic maintenance.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
It could be a fighter aircraft or a bomber aircraft with long-range missions to carry bombs and drop them at the designated place. Then there is transport aircraft for carrying soldiers, vehicles, and even main battle tanks.
This was 2003.
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Hydraulics go. Pressures go. Countdown begins…321 and the Delta II rocket lifts off with the Mars Exploration Rover.
privacy policy
You cannot attach a thrust vector nozzle to a first-generation aircraft and make it second-generation because this will amount to a total redesign of the engine. Therefore, a new design system in the propulsion system came up and they were called the
A generational shift in a fighter aircraft occurs when a technological innovation cannot be incorporated into an existing aircraft through up-gradation/retrofit. For example, the first generation aircraft did not have a thrust vector nozzle required to go for supersonic speeds.
The precision required, the decision-making abilities, and the operational effectiveness of the pilot as well as the propulsion system of these types of aircraft are the extremes of engineering.
18/02/2025
Last Name
Published 03/05/2021
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?