+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
The socio-cultural lens: Insights from social media reels
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Youngster making reels on mobile phone
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
While reels are primarily used for creative and entertaining content, they tend to reflect and amplify the broader cultural norms and social trends that are prevalent in society. Reels offer a rich source of data that can be examined from various angles by Digital Humanities scholars to gain valuable insights into contemporary culture and communication patterns
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
In the digital world, learning and knowledge have found new avenues of expression and sharing in not only text but also images, videos, sounds, and music. This whole corpus of data now serves as a vast field of possibilities to learn new patterns, meanings, and connections among different aspects of things. This shift from print and text as the main source of knowledge to the multimodal discourse has led to the need for new learning models that are in sync with fast-changing technology and the digital world. In this context, Digital Humanities is emerging as a novel and significant field of study for scholars interested in deepening their knowledge along with building strong technological and computational skills, which will make them future-ready. A digital humanist can work with literature, history, politics, sociology, and media studies to garner innovative research questions and unravel them to solve complex problems.
Mobile Number
Dr. Sakshi Chanana
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Social media reels have also impacted global culture in terms of influencing fashion trends, music tastes, the food industry, the sense of beauty, and the idea of self. An interesting project called ‘Selfie City’ by cultural theorist and digital humanist Lev Manovich investigated 3200 selfies from Instagram, using a mix of theoretic, artistic, and quantitative methods to show how five different cultures use photography similarly and differently to depict themselves. Such projects foretell a growing influence of the use of images and videos as knowledge databases to produce new information and research.
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
A glance at contemporary projects in Digital Humanities reflects that perhaps long-standing uneasiness between academia and popular culture is eventually fading away with the advent of social media and its persuasive power. It is no longer unacademic or denigrating to deepen one’s interest and engagement in popular things and movements that constitute the fabric of the lives of digital natives. Next time, you spend hours on social media, try asking relevant questions like – How does any reel become viral? Can I observe some patterns in all popular posts and reels? Does it say anything about the social situation or political undertones or cultural aspects of the society I live in? Why is social media scrolling so addictive? The answers may very well, change the way you see the world.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
How often do you find yourself mindlessly scrolling reels on Facebook or Instagram? Can it entail intellectual experience? Is it possible to make better sense of the world by studying the choices we make on social media? The answer is Yes. Traditional scholarship has relied upon textual knowledge acquisition and dissemination as a means of intellectual capacity building for centuries. We have turned to this form of knowledge time and again to look for the deeper meanings and layers, which in turn, has facilitated academic, social, and cultural discourses. However, there has been a phenomenal change over the last two decades in how society perceives, analyses, interprets, and utilizes knowledge. We are no longer limited to standard practices of reading a newspaper every day or going to physical libraries to search for relevant books or material for our research. One doesn’t need to travel miles to access study material or wait for a long time to be connected to others located in different parts of the world. New Media has transformed the global culture in more ways than one.
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
The study of social media platforms as a global change shifter and maker also falls under the ambit of Digital Humanities. One can work on Facebook and Instagram reels’ emergence as a platform for the creation, access, and preservation of digital content aimed at influencing people, creating brand awareness, standing for a social cause, showcasing creativity, along with being a means of entertainment. It also allows people from diverse backgrounds to represent their voices. For instance, as a digital humanist, one can engage with studying the impact of Instagram reels on global culture by looking at them as cultural artefacts, which having a life of their own, also influence the lives of the people creating them. The digital persona becomes as significant as the real one, as one aims to discover nuances like how Instagram viral reels are also steeped in algorithmic biases. Digital Humanities scholars engaging in exploring social media may look for the parameters that make certain kinds of Instagram reels viral, or explore factors influencing Instagram reels usage behaviour, by understanding Instagram Reels algorithm and allied processes.
How does the reelification of music, audio, and information impact culture? It fosters new pathways for world music –breaking the barriers of language along the way. For example, many Insta- viral reels these days use the audio and lyrics of the song “kaile baje muruli, baina unchi unchi dalliyon ma”, a Kumaoni song by Gopal Baabu Goswami, which is a song of love and longing. Its use as Insta-audio brings the culture of Uttarakhand to the world, albeit indirectly. Similarly, social campaigns are also run on reels, changing the dynamics of social change movements- and widening their arena from localized spots to the global arena. In this way, they also create a space for digital activism that reaches out to a global audience than being limited in a time-space continuum, changing the norms and ways of engaging with activism, thus impacting how a given society chooses to fight for its causes. This making of digital archives, is also in a way, a marker of culture and its transitions over a period of time.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
The writer is Dr. Sakshi Chanana, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
Published 31/07/2023
18/02/2025
17/09/2024