school of design
+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Sustainable fashion
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation. The space is brimming with opportunities for young professionals who are fashion savvy, climate-conscious and empathetic towards society
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
including ‘Sustainable Design Materials and Processes of the Future Fashion Industry’ along with life skill courses such as ‘Ethical Leadership in the 21st Century’.
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Studying sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Tags
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
For fashion aspirants who care about the planet, the first step towards making a change comes from knowledge. By enrolling in a fashion design course at a premier institute such as UPES,
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
United Nations
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
Sustainable fashion journal
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
UPES School of Design
26/07/2024
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
From niche to mainstream
Published 07/01/2022
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
The fashion industry is the second-largest polluter in the world after oil and gas. It is responsible for 10% of global greenhouse emissions annually, according to the United Nations. Globally, over 100 billion garments are bought every year, out of which around 60% are made from non-biodegradable synthetic fibres such as polyester. Because of the throw-away culture, most clothes are, on average, worn seven times; 93% of the used outfits end up in landfills and can take up to 300 years to fully decompose. And the microplastics? They land straight inside the aquatic life and then on our plates.
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
Gravitas
UPES Editorial Team
And the overconsumption is not limited to water. Fast fashion – the production of unnecessarily large quantities of garments – has contributed severely to the depletion of natural resources and environmental degradation.
How to become a fashion stylist
Sustainable fashion became a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation. On the agenda were the following objectives: slowing down the global production and consumption process by reusing and recycling; replacing hazardous chemicals with environment-friendly, bio-based products such as natural fibres (hemp, jute, flax); deploying renewable energy to run the production; departing from the fast fashion phenomenon by taking something that already exists to make something new; extending the lifetime of every clothing piece; and educating consumers so they can become better equipped to make ethical purchasing decisions.
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
If you are enthusiastic about becoming a designer who creates positive change, apply here.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Since the early 2000s, several steps have been taken by established powerhouses such as Louis Vuitton, Edun and Stella McCartney who have prioritised vegan products, and high-street labels such as H&M, which has pledged to use 100% recycled or sustainable materials by 2030. Fashion brands in India such as PECKD are moving beyond sustainable fashion to being 100% compostable. From the fabric to the thread and even the buttons, everything decomposes when buried in moist soil. None of the PECKD designer wear has plastic, rubber, or metal in any form. E-commerce platforms such as ‘Rent the Runway’ and apps such as ‘Depop’ have made it convenient to rent, sell or purchase used clothes to make fashion more ‘inclusive, diverse, and less wasteful’. India’s Harnaaz Sandhu, who was crowned Miss Universe 2021, won hearts with her quick wit and palpable confidence, and also made waves for her choice of wearing a gown made using recycled elements.
Sustainable Development
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
As the world acknowledged climate change consequences, fashion, too, took notes on reducing its carbon footprint. In the 90s, innovators and designers started strutting towards ‘sustainability’ – a term introduced by the World Commission on Environmental Development in 1987.
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
students learn the a to z of fashion
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
References:
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Last Name
It takes approximately 2,700 litres of water – the amount a person drinks in 2.5 years – to produce a kilogram of cotton. One kilogram of cotton is just about enough to make one t-shirt. Every year, around 2 billion t-shirts are sold globally. The amount of water consumed during the process is staggering.