5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Diana George
“Examinations were conducted using a different approach. I was exposed to resources like seminars, clubs, and student writing centres which helped me keep up with my academics and score well,” she says.
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
“Upon my arrival there, I got the opportunity to interact with students from different parts of the world, learn about their cultures, try their cuisines, and understand their perspectives on different issues which made me more aware as a person,” she says.
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
The national-level debater says that the UCB classroom experience challenged her to think beyond modules and books.
Course Type
For more information, visit
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Please enter email address
The Semester Abroad/Exchange Program seeks to enable UPES students to experience diverse cultures, customs, and lifestyles at these foreign campuses, while earning credits for their studies.
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
Describing her experience, the 21-year-old said the time spent at UCB was “life-changing from the onset”.
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Not one to miss out on fun activities amidst serious work, the self-confessed travel lover utilised the opportunity to travel to San Francisco, Santa Clara, and Mexico. She also managed to fulfil a childhood dream – that of attending a rock concert by Coldplay.
03/01/2025
Shubhransi is thankful for the multicultural and diverse experience that she encountered at UCB.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Shubhransi Kumar, a fourth-year student of BA LL.B., went for a five-month semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley and came back, in her own words, more independent and aware as an individual
According to her, one of the major highlights of the program was her visit to the Superior Court in California where she discussed jury trials and their validity in the 21st-century during a one-on-one conversation with a judge.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
school of law
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
“From the time I filled out my application form to preparing to live in a different country all by myself helped me become independent,” she says.
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Shubhransi admits that even though she found the academics and learning environment at UCB challenging in the beginning, she slowly began to see the benefits.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
“My future goal is clearer now and I feel more confident that I will be able to achieve it. This wouldn’t have been possible without the opportunity that I got,” she tells us.
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
She feels that attending the numerous networking events in Berkeley played an important role in shaping her future plans as she met many inspiring people who gave her advice on prospective career paths.
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
Shubhransi Kumar is a fourth-year student of BA LL.B. at UPES. In May 2022, she came back from a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB), US. The law student read Foundation of Legal Studies, Supreme Court and Public Policy, Human Rights and Research, and Legal Writing at the UCB.
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
Albeit transitioning to the US was challenging, Shubhransi says her professors and friends from around the world supported her at every turn.
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
“The academics and learning environment, especially with Berkeley’s highly competitive environment, can feel taxing mentally and physically, but I tried to channelise that in a positive way, knowing that this experience was going to be worth it in the end,” she says.
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
“These small experiences have resulted in enormous personal growth and understanding of self,” she says.
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
UPES International Connect
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
UPES has signed agreements with world-renowned foreign universities to provide an enriching international experience to its students through the Semester Abroad/Exchange Program.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Published 03/08/2022
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
On the co-curricular front, Shubhransi enjoyed her time by participating in various activities like dancing, singing, and dramatics.
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022