Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
It was the industry-aligned academic training at UPES that equipped Siddhivinayak for the world of work, and he landed an INR 50 LPA offer from Microsoft. “The essence of practical learning where I could visualise what I learned theoretically prepared me for the workplace. It helped me portray my skills and understanding of the subjects in front of industry experts. The strong industry exposure at UPES enables us to learn more about the companies and provides excellent ways to explore different company cultures and ways of working,” he says.
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
UPES B.Tech. student Siddhivinayak Dubey
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Please enter first name
Siddhivinayak specialises in Graphics and Gaming, a branch focusing on the creative visual element of tech science such as Game Development, 3D and 2D Animation, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality. Though what he liked the most about his education were the experiences which came along with it. “Learning is a never-ending process. Therefore, enjoying the journey is much more important than merely working towards completing a degree,” he says.
Mobile Number
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Every year, thousands of students graduate with degrees in different fields, aspiring to build their careers at the world’s best companies. They are aware that the competition is fierce, hence they must put their best foot forward during placements, when the campus is pulsating with recruiters from industry behemoths.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
During his placement, B.Tech. student Siddhivinayak Dubey leveraged his strengths and used competition as a motivating force to give his best. “Frankly speaking, placements are highly competitive. Every student with different gifts tries their best to outperform everyone. However, this competitiveness became a source of motivation to push myself harder and achieve something I could never have thought of, had I settled already,” he recalls.
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Elaborating on the questions asked during the interview, Siddhivinayak says that his participation in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job. “I had four interviews in total, and apart from technical questions, what I got asked about the most was my co-curricular activities. I was the President of Lazarus Performing Arts, the cultural society of UPES. I led a team full of creative individuals, which helped me to grow as a team player while pushing my limits to the full extent. Joining clubs and attending events can help you meet people from different backgrounds, explore diverse perspectives, and expand your worldview,” he informs.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
What skills does he hope to gain working in this job? “I hope to enhance my knowledge and understanding of the beauty of tech science, so I can solve problems and empower people’s lives,” Siddhivinayak signs off.
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name
Published 09/09/2022