First-year students, who have undertaken the social internships, are upbeat about their experiences.
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
srijan model of internship
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
Emy Watson, from UPES School of Engineering, has begun interning with Atypical Advantage, an organisation that works for Person With Disabilities (PWD) to generate livelihood opportunities for them by showcasing their talent. “I always wanted to help people and this social internship provides an opportunity to make lives better. Social internships give students the hands-on practical experience they need. I feel that quality internships are essential to developing key skills that you cannot get in a classroom. Skills such as multitasking, communicating and dealing with deadlines. Internships are also a great way to network with people in the industry,” says Emy.
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
, said,  “UPES has always been a forerunner in supporting the local communities of Uttarakhand in various ways. Srijan is yet another commendable effort by UPES that goes beyond the regular classroom education, preparing students to become compassionate human beings and effective leaders. It is important that the young minds are sensitized towards developing an equitable and sustainable society to achieve lasting progress, as envisaged by our Honorable Prime Minister.”
Tags
social internships
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
UPES recently launched Srijan Social internships as part of School for Life. Under this, all first-year students will be required to go through 6-8 weeks-long work internships with social sector organisations. These internships form an important part of UPES’ new learning framework. These social internships will prepare students not just for empathetic leadership but also for collaborative work experiences and community service.
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
, “Between the conceptualization of social internships and accomplishing more than 300 MoUs with social organisations in just five months, what lies in the passionate work of young members of our team. These internships will provide a platform to our students enabling them to create a positive impact on people’s lives and in turn, have a metamorphic and life-transforming experience.”
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Says Manish Madaan, Director, Career Services and Corporate Relations, UPES
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Pradeep Jagwan
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Published 01/07/2021
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Kasturee Hajra from UPES School of Health Sciences is interning with Human Health Education and Research Foundation (HHERF) that seeks to build multi-sectoral, sustainable global health networks and ensure that the human race works together to survive and thrive. Says she, “I feel social internships give us a leg up in the profession, providing us with practical work experience and practice to deal with challenges and issues. Having real-world work experience shows the recruiter that we have a clear set of goals that we are actively working towards.”
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Janhvi from UPES School of Modern Media, who has joined Adore India as an intern, corroborates her views. Adore India is a voluntary network of university students and professionals who interact with students so that they grow and become successful professionals and responsible citizens. “Leadership skills, strong communication skills, and confidence were some of the strongest and most apparent skills that I am learning during my internship. This internship helps me improve my industry skills while also learning how to work,” explains Janhvi.
The internship experience of Anshul Nahal, from UPES School of Business, has been no different. He has been working at Katha, an organisation that straddles the literacy-literature divide. Says he, “I am proud to be associated with an organisation that has helped nearly one million children lift themselves out of poverty over the last three decades through its various programs. The Katha Lab School uses STEM education to make students more employable. We give children the tools they need to address important community issues like health, water, sanitation, and the environment..”
Inaugurating the launch ceremony, Shri Tirath Singh Rawat, CM of Uttarakhand
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024