Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
“There are numerous dosage forms available – tablets, capsules, emulsions, parenterals, etc. The lab not only provides information on different dosage forms, but also why a particular dosage form is designed for a particular drug administration route,” Vaibhav says.
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
25/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
who specializes in drug delivery systems and nanotherapeutics, solid state characterization, polymorph and salt screening, preformulation, formulation development, and preclinical pharmacokinetics; and
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
whose research specializes in nano- and micro- drug delivery systems, pharmaceutical formulations, preclinical pharmacokinetics, novel drug delivery systems;
The Pharmaceutics Laboratory course is led by the following faculty members:
Describing the experience of formulating his first tablet, Anshuman says that he felt incredible as he and his teammates created paracetamol tablets and labelled them, marking the ingredients list and storage instructions.
Students of Pharmacy at UPES learn all this and more at the university’s world-class pharmaceutics laboratory. The lab is fitted with some of the most advanced apparatuses and equipment to give a hands-on learning experience to Pharmacy students.
The writer is Jahnvi Pandey & Kanika Goswamy, students, BA, LLB, UPES School of Law (2019-24)
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Anshuman says that he feels “fortunate to be a part of UPES as the university focuses on practical learning concepts to prepare students for careers in various pharmaceutical fields”.
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Students are given practical training sessions in the lab to guide them through the key unit operations of the formulation process of various solid and liquid dosage forms, as well as end-product testing and quality control.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Published 06/04/2023
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
School of Health Sciences and Technology
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
His batchmate Anshuman Tripathi shares his excitement.
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
Dr. Deepika Sharma
13/08/2024
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
Vaibhav Pandey, a 3rd year student of B. Pharma., says that the sessions in the pharmaceutics laboratory helped him to learn the fundamentals of conversion of drugs into dosage forms.
A central aspect of pharmaceutical studies is to understand drug dosage forms. Drug dosage form refers to either the mode in which the drug is delivered to the body – oral, topical, inhaled, etc. – or the form in which the drug is prescribed – tablet, syrup or capsule.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Students conducting experiments at the Pharmaceutics Lab, School of Health Sciences and Technology, UPES
These include in vitro dissolution apparatus, in vitro tablet disintegration apparatus, 10 station rotary tablet compression machine, automatic capsule filling machine, liquid filling machine, friability testing apparatus, tablet hardness tester, viscometer, tablet coating pans, UV spectrophotometer, infrared spectrometers, thermal gravimetric analysis, X-ray diffractometers, HPLC, and Raman spectrophotometer, among others.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
whose interests lie in pharmaceutical product development and optimization, novel drug delivery systems, enhancement of drug solubility and pharmacokinetics and biodistribution.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Dr. Prashant Shukla
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
Dr. Gunjan Bonde
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Dr. Rajendra Awasthi
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Last Name