7 Must do Courses along with BBA
JIRA is essential for managing projects efficiently, tracking progress, and collaborating with teams, especially in Agile environments.
Google Analytics is key for understanding user behavior, tracking performance metrics, and improving online marketing strategies.
Pursue Business Administration
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
The name "JIRA" is derived from "Gojira," the Japanese name for Godzilla, as a nod to the tool's powerful features.
Google Analytics
Google Analytics was originally called Urchin, after a web statistics company Google acquired in 2005.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Codecademy, Khan Academy, and SQLZoo are great places to start learning SQL.
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
When it comes to futureproofing your career, choosing industry-relevant programs to hone your skills, enhance your expertise, and align your career trajectory with industry demands is imperative. By exploring these top programs, you’ll better understand how each field can shape your career and set you up for success in a rapidly changing job market.
JIRA
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
In today’s fast-paced business environment, the role of a business analyst is more critical than ever. They are the link between data and decision-making, ensuring that organizations make informed choices based on accurate insights. But to succeed, business analysts must be equipped with the right tools to collect, process, and analyze data effectively. Below, we dive into the top 10 tools used by business analysts and why they are indispensable in driving business success.
B.Com. (Hons.)
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
MBA
SAS has been used for over four decades, making it one of the oldest and most trusted statistical software systems.
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Published 13/12/2024
Conclusion
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
SQL was initially called SEQUEL (Structured English Query Language) when it was developed by IBM in the 1970s.
Balsamiq is ideal for quickly creating low-fidelity wireframes that help communicate ideas to stakeholders and developers.
Fun Fact
Call Me
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
Microsoft Excel
23/09/2024
Learn the basics of creating flowcharts, diagrams, and process maps with Visio’s built-in tutorials and templates.
All these tools help simplify the work of a Business Analyst. Make sure to have sufficient knowledge of them before trying to make a career as a Business Analyst.
SQL is essential for querying databases, allowing you to retrieve and analyze data efficiently.
Integrated- BBA-MBA
Begin with Balsamiq’s official tutorials and practice creating wireframes for websites and apps.
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
Begin by learning Python’s syntax and libraries like Pandas and Matplotlib for data analysis.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
SAS has its learning academy and platforms like Coursera and DataCamp offer SAS courses.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Top 10 Essential Tools Every Business Analyst Must Master
Submit
SAS (Statistical Analysis System)
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency. As businesses evolve, so do the tools that analysts use to analyze data, optimize processes, and deliver actionable recommendations. Whether you’re aspiring to become a business analyst or already working in the field, mastering the right tools can significantly enhance your performance.
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Visio helps business analysts visualize complex processes, workflows, and systems, improving communication across teams.
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
BBA
the
Balsamiq
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
PhD
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Start with Google Analytics Academy for free introductory courses and move on to more advanced tutorials.
Power BI allows you to create comprehensive reports and dashboards that are easily shareable and integrate with other Microsoft tools.
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
Where to Learn
Microsoft Learn and LinkedIn Learning provides Visio tutorials for beginners and advanced users alike.
13/08/2024
Tools
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Monty Python’s Flying Circus
Start with online tutorials on basic functions and progress to advanced Excel courses that cover pivot tables and data analysis.
Balsamiq was built to mimic the look of a hand-drawn sketch, making it easier to focus on concepts rather than detailed design.
Table of Contents:
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
The first version of Excel was released exclusively for Mac in 1985 before making its debut on Windows.
Please enter mobile number
SQL (Structured Query Language)
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
Toy Story
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
Microsoft Learn, edX, and Udemy offer extensive Power BI courses.
Learn the basics of statistics and how to use SAS through tutorials and projects involving real data.
In this blog, we’ll explore the top 10 tools used by business analysts, how to learn them, where to find the best resources, the benefits of learning these tools, and a fun fact about each one.
UPES Editorial Team
Python’s official website, DataCamp, and edX offer beginner-friendly courses.
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
How to Learn
Microsoft acquired Visio in 2000, and it has since become one of the most widely used diagramming tools across industries.
Explore Tableau’s official website for free resources and take part in practical projects to gain hands-on experience.
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance offer excellent career opportunities, but the choice ultimately depends on your interests, skill set, and long-term career goals. Whether you’re passionate about building brands or analysing balance sheets, each path has its unique benefits and challenges. Consider where your strengths lie, and which industry excites you more before making your decision.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Power BI
Atlassian (the company behind JIRA) offers tutorials and certifications, and platforms like Udemy have extensive courses.
Mastering these tools can give you a significant advantage in the field of business analysis. If you aspire to excel in business analysis and gain expertise in the latest tools and methodologies, consider pursuing the right business degree can help you master business analytical tools, skills, and strategies with a constant industry-relevant curriculum, practical exposure, live projects, and expert mentorship. Here’s a list of courses you can pursue:
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
Python
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Platforms like Coursera, Udemy, and LinkedIn Learning offer comprehensive Excel courses.
Google’s official Analytics Academy and platforms like Skillshare and Coursera offer in-depth courses.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Start with Power BI's official documentation and tutorials, then move on to guided projects.
Tableau enhances your ability to communicate data insights through beautiful, interactive visualizations.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Start with basic SQL queries and practice querying databases with real-world data sets.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Familiarize yourself with JIRA’s features by working on real projects and using its issue-tracking capabilities.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Our counsellors are just a click away.
Benefits
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
, reflecting its creator’s desire for the language to be fun and engaging.
Email Address
Python is versatile and widely used, allowing you to automate tasks, analyze large datasets, and even build machine learning models.
SAS is a powerful tool for advanced analytics and predictive modeling, highly valued in industries such as finance and healthcare.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
Power BI was originally designed by the creators of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Analysis Services (SSAS).
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Python is named after the British comedy series
Please select Course
Tableau’s co-founder, Pat Hanrahan, also worked on Pixar’s groundbreaking graphics software used in movies like
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
Microsoft Visio
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Become future-ready with our Business programs
Balsamiq’s official learning resources, Udemy, and LinkedIn Learning offer specialized courses.
Tableau
Integrated B.Com. (Hons.)-MBA
Mastering Excel helps you organize and manipulate large data sets, automate repetitive tasks, and perform quick data analysis.
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Tableau’s official learning platforms, Udacity, and YouTube have extensive courses for all levels.
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name
Know More