7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Stay Informed on Industry Trends
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
Industry Alignment
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
: An MBA degree duration usually lasts two years full time. Choose a specialization that infuses those two years with
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Published 26/09/2024
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
Networking and Advice
21/11/2024
Course Type
internships
MBA specializations
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
MBA Aviation Management
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
reports and forecasts to identify which specializations are likely to yield a high MBA salary.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
MBA
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Conclusion
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Utilize Campus Resources
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
MBA Business Analytics
Career Goals
By carefully evaluating these factors, you can select an MBA specialization that not only enhances your academic experience but also aligns with your career aspirations and market opportunities.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
The wrong specialization can negatively impact your earnings and cause job mismatch by 20-30%. Choosing an MBA specialization is a bit like picking a Hogwarts house—except instead of a magical hat, you’ve got career advisors and industry trends guiding you! By exploring the diverse specializations and aligning them with your passions, strengths, and industry trends, you position yourself for long-term success. Venture wisely!
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
MBA Power Management
23/09/2024
In an increasingly competitive job market, choosing the right specialization during your Master of Business Administration (MBA) program can be a pivotal move for your career. With an MBA providing a solid foundation in advanced business strategies, selecting a specialization aligned with future industry trends can distinguish you from the competition.
Top MBA Specializations for Career Growth
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
: Review the MBA curriculum and faculty expertise of the specializations you are considering. A strong curriculum and experienced faculty can enhance your learning experience and provide valuable networking opportunities.
: Investigate current and future industry trends. Look into sectors that are growing and in need of skilled professionals.
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Self-Assessment
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
MBA International Business
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
Unemployment among MBA graduates in India has been a concern in recent years, reflecting both the saturation of the job market and the varying quality of MBA programs across the country. While some factors may be out of our hands, choosing the right MBA specialization is in our control. Thankfully!
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
the
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
: Look at the industries and companies that hire graduates from the specializations you’re interested in. Ensure that the specialization offers pathways to jobs after MBA in alignment to your career ambitions.
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Balance Academics and Well-being
Please enter mobile number
: Evaluate your interests, strengths, and career aspirations. Consider what MBA subjects you are passionate about and where your skills lie. This will help narrow down MBA specializations that suit your personal and professional goals.
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
MBA Strategy & Consulting
: Seek advice from industry professionals, mentors, and alumni who have pursued the specializations you’re considering. Their insights can provide a real-world perspective on the benefits and challenges of each field.
Practical Experience
Optimizing your MBA experience is like a business buffet where you need to sample everything: network like you're collecting trading cards, dive into internships as if you’re auditioning for the lead role in a corporate blockbuster and attend events as if you’re on a quest for the Holy Grail of career opportunities. Basically, think of your MBA as a high-stakes game show where participation, not just attendance, is the key to winning big!
MBA Oil and Gas Management
Choosing the right MBA specialization requires careful consideration of your personal interests, strengths, and career aspirations.
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
This blog explores the top MBA specializations that are set to flourish in tomorrow's dynamic job landscape.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
: Define your long-term career objectives. Choose a specialization that aligns with where you want to be in the future, whether that’s in a leadership role, entrepreneurship, finance, marketing or a specific industry.
, live projects and hands-on learning opportunities.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Leverage Networking Opportunities
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
MBA Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
to see how they can boost your career and give you an edge in the rapidly evolving job market.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
MBA Metaverse and Web 3.0
24/01/2025
Here’s how you can win big!
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Email Address
Analyze job market
Market Research
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
Curriculum and Faculty
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
MBA specializations are strategic decisions that can significantly impact your career trajectory. By choosing to focus on areas such as data analytics, finance, marketing, or entrepreneurship, you tailor your education to align with industry trends and demands. Understanding how these specializations fit into the broader MBA course framework will guide you in choosing a path that not only interests you but also positions you for future success.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Here’s a step-by-step guide to help you make an informed decision:
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
MBA Digital Business
MBA Global Program
14/02/2025
Seek Practical Experience
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Opt for industry-focused tracks that refine your skills and align with market needs. Explore these top
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Engage Actively in Class
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
Which Specialization Suits You the Best?
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Optimize Your MBA Degree Experience
Last Name