+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
School of Engineering
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
The writer is Shruti Khare, student, B.Tech. Aerospace Engineering, UPES School of Advanced Engineering (2020-24)
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
The tour was not just limited to industrial visits. The students also got a chance to explore the city of Hyderabad and its rich cultural heritage. The students went to several historical sites, including the Charminar. The students also sampled the city’s food, including the famed Hyderabadi biryani. The Aerospace Engineering students gained valuable knowledge during the industrial tour. They were able to see the actual application of the principles they learnt in class. The visit also gave them an understanding of how the aerospace business works and the issues it encounters. The visit taught the kids the value of innovation and how it propels the industry ahead. The students also had the opportunity to connect with industry engineers and scientists and learn from their experiences.
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
School of Advanced Engineering
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
On the third day, the students went to Skyroot Aerospace, a Hyderabad-based business that creates rocket propulsion systems for tiny satellites. The students were given a presentation on the company’s numerous projects as well as its future plans. They were also given a tour of the manufacturing plant and had the opportunity to see the rocket engine manufacturing process. The students met with Skyroot Aerospace engineers and scientists, learning about the company’s work culture and approach to innovation.
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Overall, it was a wonderful learning opportunity for them. It impressed upon them the importance of innovation to thrive in the fast-evolving digital world.
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
Shruti Khare
-- None --
UPES students at ISRO’s Remote Sensing Data Reception Facility
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
The first day of the visit began with a visit to the Indian Space Research Organization’s (ISRO) National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC). The NRSC is in charge of supplying satellite data to various organisations and institutes in India and throughout the world. The students were given a tour of the centre’s activities and facilities, as well as an explanation of the remote sensing technology used to collect and interpret satellite data. The students had the opportunity to meet with the scientists and engineers at NRSC and learn about the applications of remote sensing technology in many sectors.
Published 12/05/2023
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
The second day of the programme included a stop at Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). BDL is a public sector undertaking of the Government of India’s Ministry of Defence. The corporation primarily manufactures guided missile systems and related defence equipment. The pupils were shown around the manufacturing plant and they experienced the various phases of missile development. The students also had the opportunity to meet with BDL engineers and learn about the issues they confront during the manufacturing process.
UPES students embarked on a trip organised by the Aerospace Engineering department – led by faculty members Dr. Sudhir Kumar Chaturvedi, Dr. Om Prakash, Mr. Ramesh Kumar, and Dr. Geetanjali Raghav – to gain hands-on knowledge of the principles they had learnt in class. The tour included stops at several aerospace firms and research facilities in Hyderabad.
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?