Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
Recalling some of the interview questions asked during the interview, Harshit says, “The questions were mostly related to my technical skills. It was a one-hour-long interview consisting of two coding questions and questions on concepts of ADBMS, OS and OOPS. Coding questions included how to implement a circular queue and a real-life-based question.”
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Elaborating upon the placement process at UPES, Harshit says, “The placement cell starts training us at the end of the third year. Each student is provided with multiple training sessions that help us later in the interviews for the companies that come to recruit us. The curriculum usually refines your aptitude and skills and trains you in coding practices. There is a special career department with the most talented faculty, which helps each student with everything required to crack the recruitment procedure of a company, starting right from resume-making skills to communicative assessments. We are also provided with mock test series and mock interviews, which give us a sneak peek of what lies ahead for us.”
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Apart from subject-matter expertise, the key to success lies in learning how to set clear and specific goals, collaborate with people who have different perspectives, identify untapped opportunities, and find numerous solutions to challenging issues. Harshit believes that participation in student chapters and societies can prepare an individual for more than just the workforce. “There are many student chapters in the college. I was part of the UPES ACM and UPES ACM-W student chapter, which helped me tremendously to grow my leadership and technical skills. I would suggest everyone to join a student chapter in their college lives. It gives them the tools they need to be engaged, active and responsible members of society,” he says.
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
For B.Tech. student Harshit Joshi, who got placed at Samsung, the advanced curriculum at UPES prepared him thoroughly for the industry. He says, “The curriculum followed by UPES has played the most important role in my academic journey. The subjects taught to me right from the first semester – be it Operating Systems (OS), Database Management Systems (DBMS), and Object-Oriented Programming (OOPS) – are helping me now in the industry. I will always be grateful for that. Knowledge of OOPS concept especially has been the most crucial aspect in making a career in this industry.”
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
He adds, “Right from the beginning of my fourth year, multiple reputed companies started arriving at college. While cracking the various rounds of the recruitment procedures of different companies, I realised the training that I had earlier with the placement team had already refined my skills so much that with a little bit of determination, I was able to crack them easily.”
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
What skills does he hope to gain working in this job? “I want to hone my interpersonal and technical skills, which will help me solve problems and empower people,” Harshit quips.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The thing Harshit enjoyed the most about his education at UPES were the interactions with the “most approachable” faculty. “They made my college life a cakewalk by helping me with conceptual learning and being always available in time of need. Other than that, I reaped the benefits of the Research and Development (R&D) labs and the equipment college provided for us,” he says.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
The knowledge, skills, attitudes and standards that enable people to succeed professionally must be developed through education. Today, employers value students who have industry knowledge so they can start delivering as soon as they join while continuing to learn on the job. This is where an industry-aligned curriculum helps students stay ahead and meet the expectations of the world of work.
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
From practical career-related support to a more realistic view of the workplace, assistance for implementing ideas into real-life projects to psychological benefits such as increased self-efficacy, UPES’ industry-focussed education has benefitted students in many ways, especially during placements.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name
Published 09/09/2022