Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Dr. Nalin Mehta, Dean,
Several international faculty are co-teaching modules at different schools. UPES is probably the only private university in India looking to hire full time 1000 PhD scholars – 250 every year for the next four years – beginning 2022. These scholars will be provided with fellowships similar to University Grants Commission (UGC) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) fellowships through university’s internal resources.
Published 15/09/2022
Please enter email address
The university also provides access to several research databases such as Science Direct, SCOPUS, Web of Knowledge, IEEE, RSC, Thomson Reuters, Harvard Business Review, Emerald Insight and Taylor & Francis. Additionally, researchers are provided dedicated research space, assistance through Junior Research Fellowships (JRF), finance, legal cells, and manpower support.
School of Design
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
School of Health Sciences and Technology.
Dr. Snigdha Misra from Cornell University and Dr. Dhruv Kumar, PhD in Cellular, Molecular and Industrial Biology from the University of Bologna, Italy, are among the esteemed faculty members at the
Dr. Manish Kumar, Head of Sustainability Cluster, Professor,
School of Engineering
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Trending Post
, UPES has onboarded some of the finest academic leaders such as Prof. Debkumar Chakrabarti (Ex-IIT Guwahati), Prof. Pradyumna Vyas (Ex-Director, National Institute of Design), Prof. Nina Sabnani (Ex-IIT Bombay IDC), and Prof. Amit Ray (Ex-IIT Kanpur) as distinguished professors and advisors to craft the best learning experience for students.
Today, the university stands tall as a hub of exploration and research. UPES research output – from 0.7 papers to three papers per faculty is possibly the highest jump for any university in one year. It is also triple the global average of one paper per faculty per year.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
Scopus (the world’s largest abstract and citation database of scientific literature) indexed research output for UPES was 1100+ in 2021. Until mid-September 2022, it was around 1400+ and is likely to cross 2100 by the end of this year. The university has grown twelve times in research output in the last seven years.
By
the
School of Modern Media
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Infrastructural Support
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
, recently presented his book ‘The New BJP’ to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The book has been making waves on Amazon’s list of bestselling non-fiction books for 12 straight weeks. It has been prominently featured in multiple publications and networks including Hindustan Times, The Times of India, The Hindu, The Indian Express, The Washington Post, BBC News, CNN-News18, The New Indian Express, and NDTV. The book is receiving rave reviews nationally and internationally and has been praised as a ‘seminal work’. The book has also been listed among the all-time top 10 books in the genre along with the late Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s autobiography. The UPES School of Modern Media is India’s first digital-first media school.
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
The initiative intends to support the growth of researchers by providing them flexible working capital and to leverage these limited funds to generate substantial external funding, industrial support, or creative scholarship projects.
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
A lot has happened since 2003, the year in which UPES was founded as a premier learning institution to provide multi-disciplinary, trans-disciplinary, industry-aligned, holistic education. Since its inception, UPES faculty members have made landmark contributions in their respective fields; contributions that have revolutionised research, solved local and global problems, and filled gaps in knowledge.
-- None --
At UPES, the foundation of higher learning is based on critical thinking and innovation; every milestone in research is a testament to the university’s thriving research ecosystem.
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
How UPES nurtures a culture of research and innovation
At the
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
UPES students get the opportunity to learn from the best in the world. The university’s faculty pedigree comprises two Rhodes scholars, a Fox fellow from Yale University along with Fulbright, Commonwealth, Chevening, DAAD, and Erasmus scholars. Recently, Dr. Khyati Tripathi, Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Studies, received a Harvard fellowship, an honour given to a select few in the world.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
In the quest to facilitate a creative and collaborative research ecosystem, the university provides financial support in the form of SEED funding. SEED is an in-house financial support available for consumables, mini equipment, travel grant, fees for characterisation, software purchase, and other operational expenses.
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Dr. Nalin Mehta (R) presenting his book ‘The New BJP’ to Prime Minister Narendra Modi
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
, was recognised as India’s number one and world’s fourth-best environment expert for his published articles, as per the analysis by Expertscape.
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
UPES has a dedicated research laboratory called the Central Instrumentation Centre, which houses machines such as X-ray Diffractometer, Drop Shape Analyzer, Photoluminescence Spectrophotometer, Atomic Force Microscope, Raman Spectroscopy, Mössbauer Spectroscopy, Electrical Resistivity and Transport Properties, Magneto Optic Kerr Effect (MOKE), to name a few.
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Unmatched academic prowess
24 UPES faculty members are on the list of top 2% researchers in the world, according to Stanford list and eight of these researchers have found a place in the one of most coveted ‘Highly Cited Researchers’ list published by Clarivate.
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name