Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Christian Von Koenigsegg, founder and CEO of the Swedish high-performance automobile manufacturer Koenigsegg Automotive AB, launched his car company in 1994. Like many young men, Christian Koenigsegg wanted to create the perfect supercar. The Koenigsegg CC prototype boasted a unique carbon body with a detachable roof. Despite limited resources, the frame, suspension, brakes, wishbones uprights, and other items were custom designed by Koenigsegg and his small team. The car was unique and received a lot of appreciation. Today, 25 years after it was first built, the car still drives impeccably.
Course Type
Another alumnus from UPES School of Design, Harshul Verma came up with the idea for designing a trike (a three-wheeled motorcycle) because of the potential they hold in the world of motorcycles, providing a safer and more comfortable riding experience. His trike, Atheris, incorporates the potential of a three-wheeled motorcycle with safety, speed, aggression, and the dynamism of a two-wheeled motorcycle.
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Atheris is operated by a high-performance graphene-based battery placed in the area near the tank. The graphene battery provides higher power output and capacity with quick charging capabilities. To provide the dynamism and thrill of riding a conventional motorcycle, Atheris is equipped with a leaning mechanism in the front. This provides the rider to lean without the fear of a fall or slide. The rear is equipped with an electromagnetic suspension that adjusts according to the terrain.
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Please enter first name
Arjun Kurunji and Harshul Verma, alumni from UPES School of Design, have been creating solutions to real-world problems and integrating hi-tech systems in their designs.
Mobile Number
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Two of the brightest minds from UPES School of Design are making waves in their chosen profession and using cutting-edge technology to design futuristic automobile designs
Please Select Course Type
The automotive industry is going through a major transformation. The automobiles of tomorrow are going to be much smarter, complex and packed with a whole bunch of functionalities. Therefore, aspiring automotive designers should be able to transform this complexity into a user-friendly design.
A subscriber email already exists.
Talking about the features of the car, Arjun says, “To simulate fighter pilot-like experiences, the cockpit of my car design can be  pushed to the maximum. The frontal face gives the look and feel of the Koenigsegg car. A strong horizontal facial graphic, which is taken from the Prototype CC, portrays the attitude of the vehicle. The sides are all about speed. The rear is about spoilers and diffusers, along with purposeful lamps placed at the corners to emphasize the width of the car,” he adds.
Arjun further says, “Automotive design is one of the most thriving jobs in the design industry. People aspire to become car designers from a very young age, but only a few make it, given the exclusivity of the job. An automotive designer’s role is to visualize the company’s vision into a tangible shape. They act as a bridge between customer needs and the technical ability of the company. Koenigsegg Visions GT is one such project that portrays my skillset and passion. UPES School of Design has played a major role in my journey here. The life-long learning provided by the university is helping me push boundaries and make a mark in the industry. UPES School of Design provided me with relevant industry experience, international exposure, practical training, soft skills, the right attitude, and aptitude.”
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Speaking about his university experience in Dehradun, Harshul says, “UPES School of Design taught me much more than design. We, the design students, , drew inspiration from varied subjects, surroundings, and experiences.
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
UPES alumni show their prowess with avant-garde automotive designs
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
Published 20/08/2021
UPES Admission Enquiry
Currently working at Maruti Suzuki India, Arjun Kurunji from UPES School of Design is responsible for various construction machinery designs. His recent project Koenigsegg aims at future aesthetics required for the brand to take on the fight in the electric powertrain arena. Taking inspiration from the Prototype CC, Koenigsegg Vision GT pays a tribute to its predecessor.
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
After a lot of ideations, the form was matured into a single-seat aggressive electric trike with a unibody design, splitting towards the end into the swingarm and the tail. With the technologies such as 3D printing, a complicated and free-flowing surface was created, allowing the Atheris to be designed with curvaceous bodywork. Also, the free-flowing and converging lines, along with a dynamic stance, give Atheris an aggressive look even when it is standing still, making it a desirable three-wheeled motorcycle.
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
Says Harshul Verma, “Every design starts with an inspiration to map out the ideas and give them life. The name ‘Atheris’ stands for the scientific name of the Bush Viper (Atheris Hispida), a silent predator, which was taken as the inspiration, considering the nature of high-performance electric vehicles – silent but packed with aggressive power. The form is a combination of organic and aggressive, with long swooping lines from the front to end, giving it a very futuristic reptile-like sculpture look.”
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name