FitBread products are produced with whole wheat grain atta, and are free from preservatives, molasses, improvers, acidity regulators, flour treatment agents, artificial colours, and emulsifiers. They are nutritious and, most importantly, tasty too!
Food start-up incubated at UPES seeks to empower local communities
UPES alumnus Aryan Singh (seen in the picture) founded ‘FitBread’ with Akshit Saxena and Aditya Kashyap
Dr. Sravendra Rana, Senior Associate Professor at UPES School of Advanced Engineering, is developing materials that can repair autonomously and help in preventing airplane accidents. This breakthrough in airplane safety can be a game-changer in the aeronautical industry
Trending Post
Last Name
Strengthening local community through inclusion and skill-training
A diet trend that promotes health and longevity
+91
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Secured an All India Rank – 2 in in the order of merit in Computer Science Engineering for Technical Graduate Course -132 entry of Indian Army
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
In the past decade, the Indian market has hardly seen any variegation in bread products. Consumers have to choose from the same monotonous range of brown bread, atta bread or multigrain bread. Being produced commercially, they use preservatives, artificial colours, emulsifiers, improvers, acidity regulators, flour treatment agents, and often do not divulge complete information about the ingredients they use. Some of the most popular brands have only 38% wheat flour in their atta bread and only 32% in brown bread, the remaining is maida or white flour. In multigrain loaves of bread, the grains are just used on the outer layer of the loaf.
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
Mobile Number
At FitBread, ingredients are sourced locally from small vendors, thus creating additional Business-to-Business (B2B) revenue channels. The procurement of regional superfoods for FitBread products is a boon to local businesses. The hiring of a women workforce for the bread-making process while also imparting additional bakery skills and training to them, has resulted in financial empowerment of the local communities in Uttarakhand.
Published 01/10/2021
Is intermittent fasting a step towards a healthier lifestyle? It is generally safe and does not result in energy level disturbances or increased disordered eating behaviours.
Have a design-related question? This prof has all the answers
FitBread range is available in six different flavours and is made with common everyday ingredients found in household kitchens.
-- None --
Submit
Course Type
Three young minds, Akshit Saxena, Aditya Kashyap, and UPES alumnus (MBA in International Business, 2017-19) Aryan Singh, understood the gap and began working to create a healthy and genuine alternative for bread-lovers. And in 2021, ‘FitBread’ was born as India’s first fitness bread brand. Incubated by UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (UCIE), it has already started garnering appreciation from the consumers.
--None--
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Baking the recipe to health
Dr. Divya Rawat
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
the
UPES alumnus and CWG silver-medallist Navneet Singh
The founders of FitBread are working with the vision to expand their operations to other states as well. They are passionate about educating people about wellness and creating post-pandemic sustainable and scalable growth opportunities for local businesses. These entrepreneurs are working with the core belief of staying “committed to being connected” to their roots.
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Three passionate youngsters including UPES alumnus Aryan Singh founded ‘FitBread’ to provide preservative-free, whole-wheat bread. Their hiring of women workforce and using locally-sourced ingredients has resulted in the financial empowerment of Uttarakhand communities
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
Sports scholarships motivate athletes: CWG silver medallist and UPES alumnus Navneet Singh
What should students entering the field of design must know? How has the industry changed over the years?
*
privacy policy
One of the founders of FitBread, a diet chef, started experimenting with various combinations, to find out where he could make improvements. It took him six long months and almost 20 batch trials to come up with the right mix. Each loaf of FitBread is made from whole wheat atta dough, expertly kneaded with flax seeds, oats, and amaranth seeds, so that the grains are found not just on the crust, but inside the loaf as well.
A subscriber email already exists.
Big sporting feats at UPES in 2022
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
test_user
‘FitBread’ Co-founder Aditya Kashyap
What if cracks could self-repair and prevent aircraft accidents? A researcher is making this possible
UPES provided opportunities for holistic development; proud to join the Indian Army
UPES alumnus and Commonwealth Games medallist Navneet Singh (left) and shooting champion and student Deeya Chopra (right).
Written by the UPES Editorial Team