Theatre is a collaborative form of performing art, which teaches valuable life skills. As a premier institution of learning, UPES has always celebrated the joy of theatre by creating an ecosystem where students can explore their creative potential while pursuing their degrees
These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
Fosters creativity and awareness:
Diana George
“All the world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely players.” This famous quote of Shakespeare from his play As You Like It aptly captures the essence of theatre. Theatre is art imitating life, and through it, people get closer to both art and life. A form of entertainment that has survived through the centuries, theatre remains an important platform for self-expression and freedom. It allows for creativity to flourish while enabling people to learn valuable life skills. This World Theatre Day, UPES celebrates the joy and freedom of theatre and its significance in enriching the lives of students.
Inculcates team spirit:
Trending Post
Instils discipline:
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
To progress in life, you need to communicate effectively so that the intended message gets delivered. This requires mastering the balance between verbal and non-verbal communication. Theatre enhances one’s communication skills both through words and actions. The dialogue delivery skills help imbibe the ability to express thoughts in a clear and concise manner while speaking in front of a large audience, thus preparing students for the boardroom presentations of the future.
+91
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Performing in front of an audience can be intimidating. Theatre helps shed those inhibitions and builds the confidence to face a crowd. By pushing students out of their comfort zone, theatre prepares them to face social challenges in the future, both personally and professionally.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
Sticking to rehearsal schedules, remembering lines, following direction, listening to feedback—theatre inculcates a sense of discipline and the value of following it.
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Theatre is driven by imagination and creativity. And by being a part of it, students learn creative ways to problem-solving. The improvisation technique followed in theatre helps build the ability of quick thinking and adaptability. Theatre is also a medium for social, political, and cultural change. Plays have always been used to address social problems. By working on such thought-provoking ideas, a student gets to become more aware and conscious of several burning issues.
Tags
Builds confidence:
-- None --
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
UPES Admission Enquiry
Initiated by the International Theatre Institute in 1961, World Theatre Day is observed every year on March 27 to mark the importance of this art form. Across schools, colleges and even corporate institutes, theatre is ubiquitous. There is always a theatre club for aspiring students and artists to come together and express themselves. Encompassing other performing arts such as singing, dancing, acting, theatre gives students a wide range to explore. It moulds personalities by helping students discover their hidden talents and achieving their true potential. Here are a few reasons why students should try this form of art.
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By a Correspondent
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
the
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
*
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
Over the years, UPES has built a cultural ecosystem where students can explore their creative potential while pursuing their degrees. There are theatre societies such as ‘Xhileration’ and ‘Paradigm Revived’, a performing arts society called ‘Vultus- The Face Shifter’, as well as other cultural and dance societies. All these clubs come together to organise various festivals, creating a culture of creativity.
privacy policy
A play is a collaborative effort of the actors, writers, musicians, designers, technicians, and many other skilled individuals. Everyone has to play their part to ensure the success of a play, and it’s this environment of teamwork that instils in students the ability to collaborate and work with different kinds of people.
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
A subscriber email already exists.
theatre day
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Ekta Kashyap
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Please enter last name
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Published 26/03/2021
Teaches effective communication:
Last Name