7 Must do Courses along with BBA
The bottom line is there is no one-size-fits-all approach to work anymore. Employers need to be more nuanced and flexible – in all senses of the word – to how employees work best. There is a need for constant innovations to keep employees engaged while ensuring work-life balance to keep the employees motivated.
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
The writer is Prof. Rahul Nainwal, Director, School of Business, UPES
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
The primary focus for organisations should be on balancing their need for efficiency and business success with employee well-being. While AI enables employees and many organisations to scale and thrive, the chief concern among the workforce is their roles being replaced or their experience being controlled.
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
Continued advancements in AI will disrupt workplaces as machines become more intelligent and can take over tasks performed by employees. Job redesign and reskilling are key for organisations to help their employees remain relevant in the workplace.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Organisations need to implement Learning Management Systems (LMS) and other tools to deliver and track training efficiently, and also use AI-driven platforms for personalised learning experiences.
Organisations will increasingly prioritise diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives to achieve high employee engagement because employees prefer diverse and inclusive workplaces.
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Hybrid working spaces are here to stay. According to Gartner research, people who work remotely will form around 32% of the workforce by 2024. Additionally, Gen Z, the latest group to enter the workforce, is clear about their needs. According to a study by Mazars, as much as 73% of them want the flexibility to organise their working hours as they like.
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Invest More in Upskilling and Reskilling Employees
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
Published 22/12/2023
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
While employees prefer remote work, employers desire a return to the office. In this tug-of-war between employees and employers, HR managers must establish a middle path to keep both parties happy. As a result, hybrid work models will continue to evolve, with companies refining policies and technology to optimise the balance between remote and in-office work.
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
As of today, mentoring is top priority for organisations. Gone are the times when employees were hired based on their educational background. Now, employers are looking for a workforce that can multi-task and is also willing to try their hands in new roles and responsibilities.
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Hybrid Model Isn’t Going Anywhere
Please enter mobile number
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
Mentorship Program for Skill Development
With the increased use of automation and AI, the generic skill set required for different jobs is changing quickly. That is why companies need to start investing in reskilling and upskilling programs to prepare employees for the future and ensure long-term engagement. Continuous learning and upskilling will be integral to retaining and engaging employees as they seek opportunities for growth.
--None--
To ensure the talent pool is well utilised, companies will have to invest in mentoring and coaching programs. These initiatives should focus on supporting career development and skill-building, enhancing employee engagement by providing guidance and support. The added advantage of mentorship programs is that they foster a sense of community and support among employees, leading to higher job satisfaction and reduced turnover rates.
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
How the university taught me the power of networking
HR managers are already working towards creating a safe work environment where every employee feels valued, heard, and empowered, leading to a sense of belonging and purpose. This inclusive culture results in innovation, encourages collaboration, and harnesses the unique strengths of each individual.
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
It is time companies focus on creating a culture of continuous learning where employees are encouraged to learn new skills and apply their learnings in different job roles. Companies should also work towards their reward mechanism and recognise employees for their efforts to curb attrition.
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Shift towards Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Advancement in AI
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name