Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
40 to 49
20/09/2024
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/specific-groups/high-risk-complications.html
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable. It includes:
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
First Name
3. People of any age with the following underlying medical conditions, particularly those that are not well controlled
5. E. Mullins, D. Evans. R. M. Viner P. O’Brien and E. Morris. Coronavirus in pregnancy and delivery: rapid review
Indian Mortality Status:
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
14.8
1.
Deepanmol Singh
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Case of South Korea and Italy:
Lack of spleen or a spleen that doesn’t function correctly
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
3. India Situation Report – 7 Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) 14 March 2020.
27/08/2024
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
25/07/2024
8
Data shows the correlation of Age and % Case Fatality Rate in China
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Trending Post
Both countries have high number of patients positively diagnosed with COVID-19, but in Italy percentage fatality rate is higher as 90% of deaths occur in those 70 years or older. On the other hand, in South Korea, the percentage fatality rate is significantly low as most of the positively diagnosed population is young (less than 40 years).
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
6. Hannah Stower. Lack of maternal–fetal SARS-CoV-2 transmission. Nature Medicine volume 26, page312 (2020)
Chronic lung disease or asthma
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
Congestive heart failure or coronary artery disease
3.6
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
https://obgyn.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/uog.22014
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
https://edition.cnn.com/2020/03/16/opinions/south-korea-italy-coronavirus-survivability-sepkowitz/index.html
17/10/2024
By
(
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
Rate
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
% Case Facility
)
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
50 to 59
Extreme obesity (body mass index [BMI] >40)
1.3
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
1. People 65 years and older
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
Published 18/03/2020
04/10/2024
-- None --
Chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis
--None--
4.
Sickle cell anemia
70 to 79
2. People who live in a nursing home or long-term care facility
UPES Editorial Team
30 to 39
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
0.2
Cirrhosis of the liver
Source:
coronavirus
covid 19
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
0.4
Ekta Kashyap
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public/myth-busters
7.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
In India, death was reported in a 76-year-old male from Karnataka and 68-year-old female from Delhi, and 63-year old man from Maharashtra all three with co-morbidities.
Email Address
10 to 19
Age (in Years)
2. The Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Emergency Response Epidemiology Team, Vital Surveillances: The Epidemiological Characteristics of an Outbreak of 2019 Novel Coronavirus Diseases (COVID-19) — China, 2020,   China CDC Weekly. 2020, 2(8): 113-122
The writer is Deepanmol Singh, student, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Health Sciences
4. People who are pregnant*. *Present data shows that there is no maternal-fetal transmission of COVID 19.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
The pandemic is gender agnostic throughout the world. However, the morbidity rates are higher in men as compared to women.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
80 and above
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
https://www.who.int/india/emergencies/india-situation-report
Diabetes
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
60 to 69
Chemotherapy or radiation for cancer (currently or in recent past)
Weakened immune system
Last Name
Neurologic conditions that weaken ability to cough