5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
01/10/2024
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
The writer is Jahnvi Pandey & Kanika Goswamy, students, BA, LLB, UPES School of Law (2019-24)
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
The presentation in the final stage involves correct body language, command over the language, and most importantly, confidence. Confidence to answer the question posed by the judges is what makes or breaks a  case. It is possible that one may not know an answer to a question, but the difference is made when a participant answers confidently and convincingly. And, as already explained earlier, for this, practice becomes very important. One should make sure to memorise certain parts of the speech so as to be able to maintain eye contact with the judges. The first speaker needs to be thorough with jurisdiction of the case and the second speaker needs to recite the prayer exactly mentioned in the memorial, apart from tackling the important contentions of the case.
the
2. Preferred sources for drafting memorial:
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Jahnvi Pandey and Kanika Goswamy
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
The things we have learnt in mooting are worth recounting.
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
Published 05/08/2022
3. Understanding convention for speeches:
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
The preparation for the rounds begins with jotting down important points and preparing a speech. Each speaker should prepare an ideal speech which covers all the possible legal aspects one can think of. Mock trials are the key to a spot-on speech. The researcher along with the student mentor should actively interrogate the speakers not only on questions of law, but also the ethical and moral issues involved during mock trials. Such trials not only help in improving speech and speaking ability, but  also help a speaker formalise his conduct in front of the judges. The prayer is the heart of the speech. It is very important for participants to know what they plead in prayer as that only will be granted to them. So it’s advisable to carefully draft the prayer.
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
We participated and won the VII UPES Novice Moot Court Competition, 2020, Best Memorial of VII UPES Novice Moot Court Competition, 2020, and 1st Online Trial Moot Court Competition, 2020.
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Career prospects after LLM
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
A law student learns the fundamental aspects of the society which are less known to the general public and helps them carve out ways to tackle problems legally and ethically. With that being said, a law student not only studies these aspects, but also applies them practically through various activities. Mooting, researching, debating, writing legal essays and interning, all hold immense importance in shaping a student’s skills. Moot Court, in simple words, is a model set up of a court room, and is designed to help the aspiring lawyers to understand the intricacies involved in representing a party in a legal suit.
4. Tackling the final showdown:
Please select Course
Based on our winning experience, here are the 4 tips to win Moot Court competitions -
As soon as the team receives the moot proposition, two things to be done.  Firstly, each member of the team must go through the proposition several times so as to analyze the arguments to be put forward from both the sides. Secondly, each member should focus on the detailed laws that can be used as supporting authorities to the arguments formed in the first instance. The facts of the case should not be moulded in any case. In addition to that, both law and morality should be kept in mind while drafting the arguments with supporting authorities.
UPES Admission Enquiry
23/08/2024
1. Primary approach:
Related Articles
Regarding the facts of the case, the moot proposition itself is the only document that needs to be referred to for drafting the memorial. For finding the laws and the supporting authorities, library or e-library of law needs to be referred to. As soon as the team gets to know the law which is in relation with the moot proposition, the bare acts for those particular laws need to be referred to for drafting Statement of Jurisdiction and the respective contentions. In order to mention the supporting authorities, key sources should only be preferred such as SCC Online, Manupatra, Lexis Advance, JSTOR, etc. The major takeaway while drafting the memorial is to follow the stated citation style mentioned in the guidelines of the competition. The final memorial should be in a neat and presentable format which can be accessed by the judges easily.
Law students can ace mooting if they follow the takeaways mentioned above and be focused in hoping for the best from the hard work put in for the competition.
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The most important element in the culture of mooting is to participate in various inter and intra competitions, regardless of the outcome. What matters more than winning is to learn and gain experience while being involved in the process. The process of being involved in mooting is an incentive to all the budding lawyers as it enhances their perspective and reasoning that needs to be put forward from both the sides in the given cases.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
LLM in International Law
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
upes school of law
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022