Diana George
+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
Educated on a full scholarship at Vivek Vidyalaya in Chhota Govindpur, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, Krishna received practical exposure in hardware, learning to make small machines at the age of 15. The school sent him to prominent institutions such as IIT-Bombay and NIT-Jamshedpur for competitions.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
School of Engineering
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Krishna’s father owns a construction supplies shop while his mother is a homemaker. His two brothers, quite unlike him, are interested in sports. However, despite financial hardships, his parents have always encouraged him to pursue his interests.
Trending Post
When Krishna joined UPES in 2022, little did he know that within a short span of time, he would gain the reputation of being the Ranchoddas of the university. Ranchoddas Shamaldas Chanchad was the name of the character played by Aamir Khan in the movie 3 Idiots, who was not only known for his scientific genius and creative imagination, but also his keen desire to help those in need. And just like Ranchoddas, Krishna too helped his professor in his own unique way when he joined college. He took apart a machine that had been out of order since 2018 and fixed it fully well.
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Ask him what his life goal is and the soft-spoken youth says that he wants to own a hardware start-up that will focus on providing solutions to problem statements. So dedicated is he towards his work that he has converted his entire hostel room into a lab of sorts.
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
He recently made an innovative sketch machine – a Computer Numerical Control or CNC plotter – and presented it to Uttarakhand Governor Lt. Gen. Gurmeet Singh during an event on sustainability. The device draws complex line drawings based on coordinates that are uploaded into its microcontroller via a software. So impressed was the Governor that he didn’t let Krishna get off the stage until the young boy had related his entire life story to him. Krishna also received an award from former state education minister Dhan Singh Rawat for an apparatus that uses the pyrolysis process to convert plastic into diesel.
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
His problem-solving skills won him praises from all his professors who encouraged him to polish and chisel his entrepreneurial spirit and innovative streak.
26/07/2024
He is 19 and ingenious. Meet Krishna Singh, a first-year student of Electronics and Computer Engineering at UPES. His shy and reticent demeanour belies the tenacious spirit he packs within, that has led him to make waves not just within the academic institution but at higher levels of governmental authority as well.
However, that was not all. Krishna extended his imagination to drones and robots. During the COVID-19 lockdown, he used his spare time to build an agri-drone that sprayed herbicides only if it detected the presence of weeds or crop disease in the field. He also assembled some line follower robots at the request of his student clients.
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
Krishna credits his teachers for inspiring him to follow his passion in STEM subjects. He credits his professor for helping him get a paid internship opportunity with R2H, an R&D based company. The extra money has helped him in contributing to the family income.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
05/08/2024
Through these competitions, the resourceful student also managed to establish contacts with college students who would take his help to make their final-year projects. And Krishna was bright enough to charge them a fee for his help. With the money he earned, he set up his own start-up called Pie Craft that specialised in making projects for college students. They would make 3D printers, CNC plotters, laser cutters, etc, for their student customers.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
Krishna has only just begun but is already being hailed as one of the innovators to watch out for in future!
Published 20/02/2023
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name