+91
Law
02/01/2025
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Emerging Legal Specializations: What to Focus on During Your LL.B
Besides the cash prize and trophy, the winners have secured paid internship opportunities with leading law firms.
School of Law
21/11/2024
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Download Brochure
Dominion Expansion and the Anastomosis of AI and IT Sectors: A Futuristic Vision
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Choosing between a BBA LLB (Bachelor of Business Administration and Bachelor of Legislative Law) and a BA LLB (Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Legislative Law) can be a significant decision for aspiring lawyers.
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
Mansha Dhingra
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
View all
Secularism in India is based on challenging the twin concepts of inter-religious and intra-religious domination
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
The legal landscape is constantly evolving, and with technological advancements, globalization, and societal changes, new areas of law are gaining prominence.
Trolling, cyberstalking, cyberbullying and doxing are the new forms of harassment millions of children and teens are dealing with everyday, over their social media accounts. The statistics in India are equally worrisome.
Competition Law plays a pivotal role in ensuring fair market competition, safeguarding consumer interests, and promoting economic efficiency. In India, the competition regulatory framework has evolved significantly over the years.
UPES students who went for Semester Abroad Program to ULaw, London, had this to say
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
Is it time to develop social media laws for kids?
Select Course
of UPES.
22/11/2024
Subscribe
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
Pursuing a career in law is a prestigious and rewarding choice, and one of the most sought-after programs to kickstart that journey is the BA LLB degree.
the
Design
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Please Select Course Type
Latest Articles
Featured Posts
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Business
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
General principles of law as a supplement to governing law in international arbitration
The role of Intellectual Property Law in fostering technological advancements
Jahnvi Pandey and Kanika Goswamy
26/07/2024
In a world of fluid geographies and virtual learning, legal education in India continues to veer towards traditional teaching methodologies teacher-centred themes, monologues, lecture series and theoretical approaches.
View less
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
Health Sciences & Technology
Showing items
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
-- None --
--None--
Blogs
How India is implementing the Paris Agreement
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Have you ever found yourself in a courtroom drama (real or Netflix) and thought, "Wait, aren’t lawyers and advocates the same thing?"
Participatory Learning, A Game-Changer for Legal Education in India?
The fundamental cause, of many causes, behind societal change and economic growth is innovation. Intellectual Property law puts innovation on a pedestal and creates an environment that safeguards creativity and promotes invention.
Preeti Aneja
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
India has taken concrete steps to reduce the impact of greenhouse gases on the environment and provide better living conditions to people. Although a lot still needs to be done, it can be said that the country is implementing the Paris Agreement in its true spirit
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Competition Law in India: Trends and Future Perspectives
BA LLB: Scope & Career Opportunities Post Degree
Every substance in nature is subject to constant change, as change leads to transformation and ultimately results in progression and development. Such variation not only affects the very nature of the subject matter but also changes the future course as well.
Advanced Engineering
23/08/2024
Please select Course
The intersection of law and technology has been a game-changer in recent years, reshaping how legal professionals work and transforming the landscape of legal practice.
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Four UPES law students – Manya Jain, Juhi Mathur, Kadari Niharika and Trisha Agarwala – went on a semester abroad program at The University of Law, London, on full scholarship.
Computer Science
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
Law students script blazing wins for UPES
30/08/2024
In international arbitration disputes, arbitral rules and party autonomy allow parties to choose governing law or substantive law applicable to one of the parties to the contract to govern their substantive disputes.
Liberal Studies
10/09/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022
The unique character of Indian model of secularism