education hub
Dehradun is synonymous to education. This beautiful city with Himalayan ranges in the backdrop is dubbed as India’s education hub and carries the label of “school capital of India”. In the last decade, this city has tremendously evolved not just as the education hub of Uttarakhand but all North India as well. Prominent personalities like Rajiv Gandhi, Abhinav Bindra, and Amitav Ghosh have received their education from some of the revered institutions of Dehradun.
These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
Diana George
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
Trending Post
+91
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
in the list of 3-Tier cities that have shown remarkable growth in terms of employment opportunities.
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Tags
-- None --
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
UPES Admission Enquiry
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Other than that, Dehradun offers a variety of adventure sports including paragliding, river rafting, bungee jumping, swimming and ice skating. There are ample opportunities for cricket, basketball, football and many other sports.
The beautiful city of Dehradun also has opportunities for part-time jobs.
By a Correspondent
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Dehradun
Related Articles
By
ASSOCHAM
Please enter email address
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
the
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The beautiful city of Dehradun also has opportunities for part-time jobs. Nature lovers can get associated with several NGOs as volunteers to work for biodiversity. Be it Raahat Foundation or People for Animals; there are many options to choose from.
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
From law to engineering, management to medicine and pharmacy to design, there is a college or university to learn just about anything. Dehradun saw a threefold increase in a span of eight years in the number of management and engineering colleges according to a recent survey by the Higher Education Department of Uttarakhand Government.
*
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
privacy policy
The fresh and healthy environment of the city helps in performing better in life while the ample opportunities make living in this city fun.
When it comes to building a career in Dehradun, the opportunities are ample. With a good number of viable options, Dehradun offers jobs in the fields of wildlife, education, biodiversity, healthcare, law and a lot more. Recently, Dehradun was ranked 3rd by
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
To conclude, it is advantageous to study in Dehradun – the education hub of Uttarakhand, from a career point of view. We at UPES believe in offering the best of education and hence offers the students a carefully crafted curriculum for all the courses and specializations. The curriculum is designed in a way that it makes the students industry-ready and loaded with all the knowledge they require off the field. At UPES, we dream about our students graduating and moving on to the real world with heads held high and solid careers in hand. Our placement record is the testimony to our commitment towards providing world-class education and career path to our students.
A subscriber email already exists.
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Ekta Kashyap
Active participation in recreational activities and sports has a positive impact on mental health. Australia’s Department of Sports and Recreation briefly found links between physical inactivity, obesity and depression.
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Please enter last name
Published 20/08/2019
Last Name
Dehradun is one destination where learning is promoted in the best possible way, thus is known as India’s education hub. The fresh and healthy environment of the city helps in performing better in life while the ample opportunities make living in this city fun.