7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Published 01/08/2023
Focus on a Green Mindset
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Employees perceive leadership as inclusive when managers listen empathetically to and advocate for their team. Inclusive managers see their team members as valuable individuals. The scope of favouritism should be too less, and everybody should be s treated with fairness by embracing non-discriminatory practices. A simple step like keeping inclusion at the forefront of the onboarding process provides an impression that the employees will receive the support they need while settling into their roles.
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Focus on AI Chatbots
Technology is changing and AI has taken over the world with a storm. Companies need to focus on training and development in the latest technologies to help employees be well versed with new introductions to be able to perform better at their jobs.
21/11/2024
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
Course Type
https://www.iea.org/reports/renewables-2021
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
The air of an inclusive workplace allows everyone to feel that they are respected, safe, heard, and accepted, irrespective of their gender, background, preference, physical ability, etc.
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
https://www.iea.org/news/renewable-electricity-growth-is-accelerating-faster-than-ever-worldwide-supporting-the-emergence-of-the-new-global-energy-economy
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
References
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Self-transformation
HR plays a pivotal role now as it has the important task of supporting this growth, particularly in recruiting and developing a skilled workforce. The focus currently is to recruit the best talent to fill positions in this rapidly expanding industry for sustaining the growing demand.
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States. The development of alternative power sources in new geographic locations has created a lot of exciting opportunities and job openings.
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Employee Development
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Employee development demands a continuous effort to strengthen work performance by incorporating different approaches like coaching, training sessions, and leadership mentoring. These sessions can help employees learn the skills they need in their current roles and introduce leadership skills and software knowledge they might need in the future.
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
HR managers have a greater role in hand. They have to self-update themselves with the latest changes to ensure they can help companies and their employees in a more constructive way.
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
Dr. Anurag Singh
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Diversity and Inclusion
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
HR analytics has indeed come a long way. From simply static reports, HR managers have started deploying various analytics models apart from following traditional methods. The current focus should be on prescriptive analytics which combines the historical capabilities of static and descriptive models, with a forward-looking perspective. It enables users to gain insights on not just what will happen next, but also on what should be done next to tackle the issue on time. It also helps managers and HR to implement better people management skills to curb attrition and ensure better employee satisfaction.
HRM across different sectors has started to utilize whatever is available in hand to reduce the wastage costs incurred by organizations. The focus is now on energy-efficient workspaces, online training, teleconferencing, responsibilities-sharing, car-sharing, electronic filing, etc., along with other environmentally friendly human resource measures to contribute to greater efficiency, better employee retention, lower costs, and better employee engagement. These initiatives assist companies in identifying cost-effective alternatives without sacrificing top talent.
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
Furthermore, safety precautions related to the COVID-19 pandemic moved about 80% of employees to remote work, according to research firm Brandon Hall Group. Since most of the employees previously worked on-site, companies and those working for them have grappled with finding and implementing new tools and resources to accommodate this new environment for work. Training and development focused on these new processes can aid in making this transition.
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
An organization must nurture an inclusive environment at work. It is important to understand that when employees love collaboration and fairness, it has a direct impact on their productivity and thus their well-being. This type of workforce is more innovative, compelled to shift jobs, and ultimately improves the bottom line of the business.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesbusinesscouncil/2020/02/03/five-recommendations-for-human-resource-management/?sh=50c13ccc39ed
When organizations plan or combine GO group orientation programs, HR can include AI chatbots to develop a knowledge management system where collective information from the outside world is presented to the employees as well as provide new insights for better information sharing.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Training and development programs also can help employees discover areas in which they could use additional educational opportunities and support. Employee training programs focussing on soft skills s such as resilience, emotional intelligence, and agility in professional settings can create an atmosphere that fosters productivity and camaraderie.
24/01/2025
Implementing People Management Skills
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Email Address
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
https://www.gartner.com/en/human-resources/topics/hr-strategy
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Also, advances in human resources technology are helping HR teams become even more engaged in their company’s overall strategic objectives. Even job onboarding can become more effective with the AI Chatbots.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
The writer is Dr. Anurag Singh, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Business
Embracing Remote Work
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name
The workplace is becoming increasingly global.  The idea of work has changed and companies need to accept this progress, especially teleworking if companies don’t want to lose out on talent. HR needs to work on bringing in and accepting this cultural change to help employees work better and contribute to the growth of the company. Having an online mode of onboarding helps candidates to consider opportunities that they wouldn’t have otherwise thought of.