5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
UPES is the first Indian university to partner with The University of Law based in the United Kingdom. It offers BBA LL.B. (Hons.) with specialisation in International Trade and Investment Law.
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
The current framework of rules that govern transnational transactions was derived from the medieval era commercial laws called the Lex Mercatoria and Lex Maritima, i.e., the law for merchants on land and the law for merchants on the sea, respectively. It was only in 1944 that the modern epoch of free trade, as we know it today, began. That was a dark phase in the human civilisation, with scars of the first World War still afresh in the minds of those who had witnessed it, the consequences of the Great Depression still in play, and the havoc created by the then-ongoing World War II.
First Name
WTO: The backbone of ITIL
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Course Type
In 1947, modern trade laws extending beyond bilateral treaties began with the negotiation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GAAT) – a multilateral legal arrangement between several countries, whose overall purpose was to promote international trade by reducing or eliminating trade barriers such as tariffs or quotas.
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
the realm of International Trade and Investment Law
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
School of Law is the place where students are prepared for rewarding careers
ITIL is based on the theories of economic liberalism, evolving in Europe and later in the United States from 18th century onwards. It is a sum of legal rules of international legislations, regulating relations and global trade.
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
The world’s smallest economy, Tuvalu, has a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of $42 million; the world’s largest economy, the United States of America, has a GDP of $20 trillion (as of 2019), which is about 4,76,190 times that of Tuvalu’s economy. If picturing this comparison is difficult, imagine how complex it would be to carry out trade and investment between countries with massive disparities in currency, government policies, markets, the judicial system, and law.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Economic interdependence and world peace
Published 05/10/2023
The university continually engages with law professionals to stay abreast of comprehensive knowledge and legal practices. UPES’ state-of-the-art infrastructure and an in-house moot court for experiential learning create an academically-stimulating environment and a collaborative learning ecosystem that sharpens the understanding of legal institutions and helps the students to emerge as first-rate lawyers.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
through exceptional pedagogy, carefully-crafted curriculum and unique instructional methods modelled after global trends.
Mobile Number
Tags
All that the world wanted was peace. Scholars realised that there was one way of necessitating world peace. It was through economic interdependence, where nation states would be dependent on each other for their supply chains. This would reduce the probability of conflict between states.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Delegates from 44 allied nations thus gathered at New Hampshire, United States, and signed the Bretton Woods Agreement, while the second World War was still raging. This established a new international monetary system, replacing the gold standard with the U.S. dollar as the global currency.
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
International Trade and Investment Law
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
As more and more countries become a member of the WTO, the ITIL branch of law is rising on the radar of the most sought-after specialisations. Lawyers with expertise in ITIL continue to enhance the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible while respecting the laws and regulations. They facilitate dispute resolution when a party violates an agreement or a commitment that it has made regarding an international trade or investment treaty. The WTO, with one of the most active international dispute settlement mechanisms in the world, has resolved hundreds of such disputes so far.
06/09/2024
Apart from a lucrative run in international organisations, lawyers with ITIL specialisation can build a strong career under their respective government in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, institutions such as the Centre for Trade and Investment Law (CTIL), the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), as well as private multinational firms.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
GAAT was, however, meant to be a temporary fix to trade issues and was soon replaced by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 1995 to create an equal field for all countries in trade. The formation of the WTO is considered as the most significant development in ITIL.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
The UPES edge
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
How, then, is the global economy able to function smoothly? There are specific rules and regulations that manage trade and investment between different countries. These sets of legal guidelines fall under
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Since its inception, the WTO has witnessed extraordinary and enormous power trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) and thousands of investment treaties.
Email Address
UPES
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
(ITIL).
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
Ever-increasing scope for lawyers with ITIL specialisation
30/08/2024
upes school of law
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022