Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
Diana George
20/09/2024
Biomedical Engineering Scope & Future Trends
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
Law
First Name
Undoubtedly, in the recent past, AI has taken the world by storm by capturing our imagination and astonishing us with its speed, efficiency, and accuracy.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
21/11/2024
Course Type
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Download Brochure
Please enter email address
Exploring Digital Twins in Healthcare
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
View all
Are you torn between pursuing a B. Pharma or a B.Sc in Biotechnology? Choosing between a B. Pharma (Bachelor of Pharmacy) and a B.Sc in Biotechnology can be challenging, as both degrees offer promising career paths.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
03/01/2025
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Please enter first name
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
17/10/2024
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
Biomedical Engineering is the face of healthcare that is changing with every passing day through the merger of medicine and technology, thus developing revolutionary solutions.
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Design
Please Select Course Type
Latest Articles
Featured Posts
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
School of Health Sciences & Technology
Business
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
View less
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
Please enter mobile number
Health Sciences & Technology
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
Showing items
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
Blogs
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Choosing between a Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) and a Diploma in Pharmacy (D.Pharma) can be a pivotal decision for those aspiring to enter the pharmacy sector.
B.Pharma vs. D.Pharma: Which Pharmacy Course Should You Choose?
Dr. Ravi S. Iyer
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
B. Pharma vs. B.Sc in Biotechnology: Which Degree Has Better Career Prospects?
Advanced Engineering
23/08/2024
Please select Course
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
25/10/2024
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Computer Science
privacy policy
Liberal Studies
Last Name