Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
upes school of health sciences
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. In UPES School of Health Sciences, we have designed programs to meet the needs of the domestic as well as the international pharmaceutical industry.
Please enter email address
China is the biggest manufacturer and supplier of APIs and intermediates that are the key precursors for the manufacturing of any finished pharmaceutical product. The current COVID-19 crisis is responsible for the supply chain disruption, which has severely affected the inventory levels of most pharmaceutical companies. Many pharmaceutical companies are struggling and trying their level best to maintain the production of their formulations. It seems the perfect opportunity for Indian manufacturers for taking advantage of this situation. Hydroxychloroquine was manufactured and exported to the countries, which demanded to deal with the  COVID-19 crisis. It is a clear example of taking the position of a global leader in the field of pharma manufacturing by India.
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
https://www.bmj.com/content/372/bmj.n196
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
The writer is Dr Manish Gupta, Associate Professor, UPES School of Health Sciences
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Dr. Manish Gupta
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
India is considered the next healthcare superpower. During the pandemic, major pharma companies showed their faith in Indian manufacturing facilities for the production of the COVID-19 vaccine. India has played an important role in the manufacturing of two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin). Covishield is the vaccine made by Oxford University in partnership with AstraZeneca. It was found to have an average efficacy of 70.4%. It is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. Covaxin was developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology. It is India’s first home-produced vaccine against COVID-19.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
http://bwwellbeingworld.businessworld.in/article/India-The-Next-Healthcare-Superpower/19-05-2020
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Published 14/04/2021
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
https://docmode.org/focus-on-healthcare-can-help-india-become-a-superpower/
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
India is famous for its low-cost yet high-quality pharmaceutical products. It is only possible due to the best infrastructural facilities and competent manpower supported by efficient government policies. India has the highest number of FDA-approved manufacturing plants, after the US. In recent years, India is becoming a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship. There are several start-ups, which have conducted research, manufactured and launched world-class pharmaceutical products. International investors are looking forward to collaborating with Indian manufacturers in all capacities. The Indian government is keen to boost investments, partnerships, and increase the ease of doing business in India.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
References:
Last Name
India exported worth USD 19.14 billion of pharmaceutical entities including bulk drugs, intermediates, drug formulations, biologicals, herbal products, and surgical products in 2019. India currently manufactures 20% of all generic products needed by the world.  The ‘Make in India’ concept would help India to become self-sufficient in the process of bulk manufacturing of drugs. It will also help us in gaining control from Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API manufacturing) to generic formulation preparation.