5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Dharma Nirpekshita
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
. He argues that Indian secularism is different as it has not emerged like the western conception of intra-religious crisis; rather, it has evolved in the context of inter-religious crisis. Indian secularism does not imply complete exclusion of religion and politics nor one-sided exclusion as in France. Bhargava further says, the relation between religion and politics require neither fusion nor disengagement, but what can be called ‘principled distance’ (Bhargava,1998:493). This implies that state can be both interventionist and non-interventionist – state can maintain religious neutrality and can counter evils of religion by invoking the legislation.
Course Type
principled distancing.
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
Secularism in India is based on challenging the twin concepts of inter-religious and intra-religious domination
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Sarvadharma Sam Bhava
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Dr. Sumit Kumar Pachauri
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
and no discrimination on basis of religion, i.e.,
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
and T.N.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
Identity politics based on religion started making its appearance in India during the colonial period. The colonial policies of divide and rule through introduction of first Indian Census in 1871, introduction of separate electorate in 1909, Communal Award of 1932, all led to the emergence of a conscious religious identity. Thus was felt the need for construction of secularism, for separation of religion and politics, with the arrival of colonial modernity. It is generally understood therefore, that secularism was constructed to oust religion and religious forces from the mainstream model of politics. The Indian Constitution discarded state religion or the principle of a single religion, although the term ‘secularism’ was a later addition.
13/08/2024
There exists considerable difference between secularism of the West and the Indian model of secularism. In the West, it emerged out of the historical processes of Enlightenment and Reformation Movement to resolve intra-religion disputes. In India, no such reform movement occurred and secular construction of India was based upon the model of eliminating identity politics based on a particular religion and to promote the idea of composite culture. Secularism construction in India implies mutual respect for all religions, i.e.,
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Rajeev Bhargava, a noted political theorist, holds a different notion in relation to conceptualization of secularism. He defends the concept of Indian secularism by advocating the theory of
Western vs Indian Model of Secularism
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
argue that it is a western construct, far removed from the practical realities of India.
Relevance of the Indian Model of Secularism
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
Arguably, that need for secularism in India was not only felt to manage inter-religion disputes, but it was also formulated to counter intra-religious domination. It neither follows complete wall separation thesis by provoking complete exclusion nor one-sided exclusion, but is based on
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
Madan
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Nandy
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
or religious neutrality. Considering theoretical perspectives on secularism, sociologists such as Ashis
Published 16/07/2020
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
The writer is Dr. Sumit Kumar Pachauri, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Law
30/08/2024
principled distancing
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022
The unique character of Indian model of secularism