Back home in India, the picture is not rosy either. Modern medicine with its trappings like the cost of treatment, private versus government hospitals, and vagaries of insurance claims, have added to the healthcare burden. While the government and other stakeholders have taken some positive steps to deal with these challenges, a lot more still needs to be done. Against this backdrop, digital twins are expected to address diagnosis, ease the system, and reduce the burden on the patients and the system.
Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/digital-twin-market
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
There is however the treatment side of things, especially in a bid to understand disease progression. In that, we may be treading into dangerous territory. In my opinion, digital twin technology to aid disease treatment is at a very nascent stage. A digital twin reacts based on the inputs it receives — the heart rate, sodium levels, whatever. But, we do not truly understand the cause or the factors that influence a disease’s progression. Anything could potentially cause a significant change in a disease’s progression – comorbidities, medication, food, addictions, the environment at work or home, anything. And often, a small change in any of these could have serious implications for a disease’s progression. All these parameters can, at best, be abstracted and fed as inputs in a digital twin, which may then result in inaccurate or erroneous predictions.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
The writer is Dr. Ravi S. Iyer, Dean, UPES School of Computer Science
Please enter email address
Exploring Digital Twins in Healthcare
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/transformation/insights/transforming-precision-health.html
A related issue is the discomfort caused by the volume of data being captured from a patient. The process may involve invasive sensors, periodic scans, sensors to monitor the environment – all of which may even be uncomfortable, disrupting the normal day-to-day life of the individual. This stress may even aggravate disease progression. And then, there’s the issue of data privacy. How secure is all the data being captured? Could that be potentially misused? One cannot wish away these concerns.
Early cancer detection
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Published 08/08/2023
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
According to PwC’s 2021 global Future of Health report, a survey of 150 healthcare executives revealed that by 2035, healthcare will be centered around patient needs, and will be personalized, digitized, and preventative, with healthcare solutions seamlessly integrated into daily life. Though the door to alternative treatments has opened, today’s healthcare systems across the world focus primarily on disease care after the patient is diagnosed with a certain disease.  In the West, especially in the US, the process of diagnosis could be expensive, involving multiple tests. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon to be erroneously diagnosed or to experience a significant delay in diagnosis, especially with different types of cancer.
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
In brief, digital twin technology is finding its way into healthcare, but reposing too much faith in its versatility may be premature. While digital twins may help in understanding the progression of a disease in a patient, the application of this technology as an aid to treating patients should be dealt with very carefully.
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
Let’s understand the impact of digital twins on healthcare, first. While the focus appears to be on the best positive patient outcome, this technology can also contribute significantly to the efficiency of healthcare operations, and healthcare education. This includes ensuring the availability of beds, personnel for maintenance, etc. These functions scale down costs and pressure on resources, which is integral to quality care delivery.  Secondly, digital twins improve medical education by offering interactive, immersive, and adaptive learning and giving hands-on experience in complex medical situations. But these are just low-hanging fruits.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
A market analysis report by Grand View Research opines that the Digital Twins market in healthcare is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 32.3 percent between 2020 and 2025. It also points out, however, that the bigger challenges to this growth are the initial implementation costs and data management.
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
https://www.mckeenassociates.com/articles/why-cancer-can-be-misdiagnosed
Undoubtedly, in the recent past, AI has taken the world by storm by capturing our imagination and astonishing us with its speed, efficiency, and accuracy. The genesis of Digital Twins — which are virtual replicas of physical objects or human beings – has further underscored this reality as immense possibilities are being envisioned in different sectors and industries – including healthcare. However, given the nature of this sector, it’s prudent to take a step back and ask more serious questions about the implications.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Dr. Ravi S. Iyer
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
References:
Last Name