Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
Today, skilled biochemists are sought after by both private and public companies, research institutions, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, educations institutes, and government agencies. After getting your Master’s degree, you can choose from a variety of career options.
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
upes school of health sciences
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Teaching:
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Though a relatively new branch of science with the term being coined in the early 20th century, over the years, biochemistry has become an essential field of science with applications in the areas of medicine, agriculture, pharmacy, and nutrition. In the field of medicine, biochemistry is used to decode our genetic build. But most importantly, it is used to research, experiment, conduct trials, and find a cure for myriad diseases. Today, without biochemists, the creation of vaccines for COVID-19 would not have been possible. Agriculture is another domain where biochemistry is helping in the prevention and treatment of diseases while also looking at ways to increase crop yield. In nutrition, biochemistry helps evaluate the nutrient value of food material and study the role of nutrients like minerals, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, and vitamins in promoting health. In pharmacy, biochemical testing provides indispensable insights into a drug’s mode of action, half-life, storage conditions, metabolism, and potentially toxic or adverse effects.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
Completing your Master’s in Biochemistry will equip you with the required theoretical and technical skills to chart an exciting career in the field. At UPES, the Master’s Degree in Biochemistry provides multidisciplinary training with a research-focus approach and project-based learning environment. It encourages the students to develop critical thinking and equips them to perform in a cross-functional environment.
Clinical Biochemist:
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
As a clinical biochemist, you will work in hospital labs to analyse patient samples and help medical staff diagnose illnesses. Clinical biochemists usually work as part of a hospital team and are responsible for investigating and analysing patient samples.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
As a biochemist, you can work in biochemistry labs to develop products and processes to improve the quality of life. You can work across industries including food, medicine, agriculture, pharmaceutical, cosmetics, and many more. Biochemists work alongside chemists, physicists, healthcare professionals, engineers, and policymakers, to name a few. So if you are interested in drug development or vaccines, you can become a biochemist in a pharmaceutical company. If the environment is the area where you want to use your skills and knowledge, you can join environmental biochemistry organisations.
By a Correspondent
Biochemist:
As the name itself suggests, biochemistry is the amalgamation of biology and chemistry. It’s the branch of science that combines chemical processes and biological methods to study life at its molecular level within plants, animals, and microorganisms.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Published 15/03/2021
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Research Scientist:
Biochemistry is gradually becoming a powerful tool for bringing sustainable change and applied to address a variety of challenges in our society. It’s a space where you can make impactful changes while also building a successful career. The choices and opportunities are limitless, so seize the right one and make a difference.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
M.Sc Biochemistry
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are interested in the field of education, you can take up teaching in schools. But if you want to teach in colleges, you may need a Ph.D. However, you can check universities for teaching jobs in this field.
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Higher studies:
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Getting a Ph.D. in Biochemistry can be another option once finishing your Master’s. A Ph.D. will give you a deeper understanding of the subject and may open up newer career opportunities, especially in the academic field.
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
After completing your post-graduate degree, you can become a research scientist in the industry of your choosing. As a research scientist, you will be planning and executing experiments, writing research papers, collecting samples and conducting surveys, recording and analysing data, among other things. Today, many public and private organizations are willing to fund research projects in the field of biochemistry.
Last Name