+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
Dr. Anju Pandey, Convener, Moot Court Association (MCA), UPES, School of Law.
“Mooting plays an important role in the career of law students. It is the closest experience a law student can get to appear before a court-like set-up. The activity requires ancillary skills such as formulation of arguments, respecting the judges, and preparation of written memorials/submissions that are not a part of public speaking and debating. The significance of
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
, highlights what students stand to learn by participating in Moot Courts. He says, “Since my first year, Moot Court Competitions have been a part of my routine in law school. Not only participating, but I would also spend time organising moot events or helping my friends prepare for their moot competitions. Mooting has not only taught me the way to study law, meet my research objectives, and develop my argumentative skills but it has altogether moulded me into a better person. It also helped me understand the significance of teamwork, patience, and the ability to work under pressure.”
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
Kirandeep Kaur, student, BBA LLB (Corporate Laws) and winner of a Moot Court Competition
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
mooting can be underlined by the benefits it offers
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Samriddh Bindal, a UPES alumnus and an advocate by profession
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
such as a chance to network with fellow students and judges and confidence building,” says
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
MCA promotes all aspects of mooting and trial advocacy in the
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
School of Law, UPES, Dehradun.
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Elucidating on the insights she gained from mooting,
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
School of Law, UPES, Dehradun
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting. The process helps law students develop a deep understanding of the policies and procedures followed in a court
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
Moot Court competitions
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Preeti Aneja
The writer is Preeti Aneja, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Law
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Published 12/03/2021
, Trial Advocacy and Paras Diwan Energy Law Moot Court Competition. All these mooting events have earned a high reputation in the law fraternity and witness large participation from reputed law schools.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
The body comprises handpicked students who are exceptional mooters and committed to the cause of nurturing their fellow mates. The association conducts multiple events like seminars, workshops, and competitions for law students across the globe. Every year, it organizes five Moot Courts namely
UPES Admission Enquiry
Internal Moot Court Competition, Novice Moot Court Competition, Surana & Surana Insolvency Moot Court Competition
Throwing light on how mooting prepares law students for life, Shubh Agarwal, UPES alumnus from the batch of BA LLB Taxation, 2015-2020, currently working as an Associate at SKS Associates, Litigators and Consultants, says, “Moot Court trains a student to find the relevant law and develop abstract thinking. It gives the much desired practical exposure, ranging from drafting to representation. It also instils a spirit of teamwork and healthy competition, so students are not only prepared for a successful legal career but for life,” he concludes.
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A moot court accomplishment on your resume helps your prospective recruiter to know that you have been learning to form and communicate legal arguments, implying that the firm would not have to invest a lot of time and resources in training you.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
upes school of law
18/02/2025
, says, “Team-work, hard work and perseverance are key elements; any lack there would impact your chances to win. From making memorial and compendium to preparing for the oral sessions while balancing your emotions would help to complete your work on time with minimal error.”
17/09/2024