Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
As proposed by Lee, Li-Hang et al, there are digital twins in the digitalised real world, there are digital natives in the many virtual worlds, and then there is co-existence of physical and virtual reality.
:
19/02/2025
Pankaj Badoni, Assistant Professor, School of
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
school of design
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
To fully realise the Metaverse, a person must create an environment, where people can move around in different virtual spaces. The content they create in one universe should hold true in another virtual universe.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
There is a famous triangle, which says that to have a good experience in VR, you need to have three Is – Immersion, Interaction, and Imagination. Now, a fourth proponent has been added to it – AI. The idea is that the environment should not be static; it should be interactive. The imagery which is being created should seem real. Lags should not come into the frames.
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
In AR, when you take your mobile phone or tablet and point it to a certain place in your room, an artificial object gets augmented over there. In reality, there is no object, but on your tablet, you can see the object augmented over there.
Course Type
Dr. Anmol Srivastava, Assistant Professor,
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
school of computer science
Metaverse
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
What is a digital twin?
School of Design
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
AR overlays digital content and information onto the physical world – as if they are actually there with you, in your own space. AR opens new ways for your devices to be helpful throughout your day by letting you experience digital content in the same way you experience the world. It lets you search things visually, simply by pointing the camera at them. It can put answers right where your questions are by overlaying visual, immersive content on top of your real world.
01/10/2024
12/08/2024
25/07/2024
*
Broadly, there are two types of AR experiences that can be created: Marker-based and marker-less.
IKEA is a good example of using AR. You can see through your smart device how a particular piece of furniture is going to look like in your home. When you are buying, say a sofa, you have a doubt whether the colour would look good or not, will it fit, etc. Through their app, you just point the device where you want the sofa, and you can see how the sofa would look over there.
, can act as major contributors to the development of Metaverse. As technologies continue to evolve, the university will continue to provide courses and infrastructure that keep its students ahead of the game.
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
There are different platforms that should interact with each other. This is something of a concern right now.
The evolution of Metaverse
20/12/2024
Published 15/03/2022
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
The discussion that ensued covered the possibilities and opportunities in the Metaverse. UPES offers two programs –
Trending Post
Scalability:
Meta means transcending different boundaries. Stephenson mentioned that users can gain access to Metaverse through personal terminals that project a high-quality virtual reality display onto goggles worn by the user. Other aspects include low-quality public terminals in booths with the penalty for presenting a grainy black-and-white appearance.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Tags
The goal of Metaverse
Submit
Select Course
Immersive Realism:
UPES School of Computer Science
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
of UPES.
14/09/2024
Subscribe
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
B.Tech. CSE Graphics and Gaming and B.Des. Interaction Design
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Pune Design Festival
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
How seamlessly can a person experience, psychologically and emotionally the environment that they are in when they are inside a Metaverse. Currently, AR is limited to visual aspects, but there are research going on to create olfactory and human food interactions (virtual tastes).
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
The evolution of Metaverse began from literatures (like Lord of the Rings and Dungeons and Dragons) and text-based interactive games (AberMUD, DikuMUD, Snowcrash). Then came virtual worlds and massively multiplayer online games (Second life and Minecraft), followed by immersive virtual environments on smart mobiles and wearables (Pokémon go, VR chat, Super Mario AR), to the new era of Metaverse, where technologies such as blockchain are being introduced (crypto-assets such as Cryptokitties and Alien worlds that encourages users to earn non-fungible tokens, NFTs, that can be converted into currencies in the real world).
A subscriber email already exists.
Today, Metaverse is everywhere. However, along with the hype, there is also confusion about this hypothetical world, with people trying to figure out what exactly happens in the Metaverse. In this light, UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava, School of Design, and Pankaj Badoni, School of Computer Science, teamed up for a workshop ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ to provide clarity about the early stages of Metaverse.
Once you wear the VR headset, you cannot see the real world; you can only see the virtual environment. With MR headsets, you can see virtual objects in the real world.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
UPES School of Design
26/07/2024
Last Name
Virtual Reality
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
One of the main components of VR is the headsets. Oculus Quest-2, which is a product of Meta (previously Facebook), is a standalone system. There are no wires attached to it. If you have created an application, it must run in the device for which you need to create an APK, the same APK which is being created for the android application. That APK should go to the Oculus store. Through the store, you can access the app on the headgear.
Inter-operability:
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Augmented Reality
Please enter mobile number
The goal is to bring the whole world into a virtual environment. Therefore, scalability becomes a huge issue as with any software. This primarily is in terms of how many users can log in at the same time, how avatars can interact, and what is the complexity of the scene.
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
Applications of AR range from education to medical and retail, gaming, and tourism. Basically, every scenario imaginable. The capabilities of AR are endless. In my opinion, if there is any technology that can change the game in Metaverse, it is going to be AR.
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
The workshop was part of the Pune Design Festival 2022, of which UPES was an associate sponsor. The discussion that followed covered topics such as Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), Social VR and Metaverse. Excerpts:
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
Ekta Kashyap
Mixed Reality
AR has wide applications because the cost involvement is low. An HTC Vibe headset costs about INR 1.5 lakh; a Holo lens costs about INR 2.5 lakh. But a tablet costs about INR 30,000. That is why, across the world, the penetration of AR is quite high.
– which, along with the infrastructure at the School of
Please enter last name
In VR, we wear headsets and are teleported into this new world altogether. People say that though it is a machine, when you wear it, it feels like truth. Basically, VR fools our brain into believing something is real. Like earphones hijack your ears, eyephones hijack your eyes and ears, but VR hijacks your eyes, ears, and other senses as well.
Zuckerberg’s tour of this fancy world created a buzz around the concept. In January 2022, Microsoft acquired game developer Activism Blizzard for 68.7 billion USD, citing the deal as the ‘building blocks for the Metaverse’.
Somewhere around 2017, the evolution of VR headsets began. There is Oculus, Google Cardboard (took extended VR capabilities to a larger audience), Samsung Gear VR, and today we have Google Daydream.
Then there is AR, which is overlaying objects into a physical space. Mixed reality (MR) is a stronger version of AR, as it also recognises the depth and the space around the user and combines them. It can be said as the starting point for Metaverse.
Last year, Mark Zuckerberg, the Chief Executive Officer of Meta (formerly Facebook), gave a video presentation of Metaverse, touted as the next phase of the Internet. He emphasised the notion of a ‘shared sense of space’, where users can communicate and navigate ‘across different layers of reality’.
Digital Twin is a virtual model designed to replicate the physical world. You have different digital worlds that can be replicated, which act just like the real world. Within the Metaverse, there will be digital natives, which are individual users who appear as avatars of any form. There is a duality where individuals have lives in the real as well as the physical world. They are living two lives, which might influence each other.
Design’s XR lab
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse
Then you have the HTC Vive, which is a bit cumbersome as there is a dedicated wire. However, it gives a more realistic imagery experience. Both the headsets have exhaustive controllers and are available at the UPES labs.
How AR can change the game for Metaverse
Then there is something called Augmented Virtuality (AV). It overlays real content into a virtual environment. AV is the real-time representation of real objects in virtual environments.
Features of Metaverse include:
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Then you have cave displays which are fully immersive boxes, projection maps, goggles that when you put on teleport you to a virtual world. Then there are markers and opti-trackers, which track your movements and only the person wearing the goggles can experience it.
Ubiquity:
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
There is a famous reality-virtuality continuum defined by Paul Milgram. As per the continuum, there is a real environment and there is a virtual reality, which cuts us from the real world altogether, and somewhere in between is MR, which is a stronger version of AR. Then there is XR, which is an umbrella term that encapsulates AR, VR and MR.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
When we talk about Metaverse, the main component is going to be VR, which immerses you in a virtually-created environment. You do not have any connection with the real world at that moment in time. The sensors will give you the spatial belonging of where you are in that room. Apart from that, whatever you are touching, interacting with, or whatever you are doing, is in the virtual world.
Metaverse became famous, especially after the talk by Zuckerberg. Though the concept originated long back around 1992-94 when American writer Neal Stephenson introduced the term in his novel called ‘Snowcrash’.
We have also come up with a museum Metaverse. The whole environment is in 3D, bringing in a social and psychological experience into it. Let’s say if there are two people geographically apart who wish to go to the museum at the same time. They can enter the Metaverse and interact with the objects as well as with each other.
Related Articles
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
As per research, every seventh person is using AR. The sole reason could be the ease of use. For AR, we do not need cumbersome headsets. We only need smart devices. In Milgram’s VR continuum, he said that on the extreme left, we have the real environment and on the extreme right, we have a virtual environment. Somewhere in between, you have AR and AV.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
For instance, there are many people who cannot physically visit the Kedarnath temple. We can create the AR experience, where the site can be brought to their living room. Anyone can take a 360-degree tour of the temple. This has been done using the marker-less AR.
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
Computer Science
privacy policy
Convergence between real and virtual reality is the goal of Metaverse. Metaverse is a cyber-space, which is a combination of the physical world and its digital twin. The key technologies that will drive it are Artificial Intelligence (AI), Blockchain, Computer Vision, Distributed Network, User Interactivity, Pervasive Computing, Scene Understanding, Ubiquitous Interfaces, Extended Reality, Internet of Things (IoT) and Robotics. The ecosystems include avatars, content creation, virtual economy, social acceptability, security and privacy, trust, and accountability.
Coming to MR headsets, the typical example is Microsoft’s Holo Lens. When you wear Holo Lens, you experience artificial objects being augmented in the real environment. Holo Lens is also available at the School of Design lab.