+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
Graduates can pursue teaching roles at schools or colleges, especially if they complete a B.Ed. or pursue a master’s degree for higher-level teaching positions.
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Graduates often pursue careers in civil services like IAS, IPS, or IFS. A B.A. offers a good base for the UPSC Civil Services Examination, particularly with subjects like Political Science, History, and Geography.
Graduates can pursue an LL.B. after their B.A. or B.A. (Hons.), leading to careers in law, corporate law, or judicial services.
career options
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
B.A. (Hons.) degree
Published 26/09/2024
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Based on your career goals, and priorities, you can decide which course to pursue. However, it’s beneficial to keep in mind the emerging job trends, global preferences of courses, and job salaries before forming a holistic view of choosing between B.A. and B.A. (Hons.). Learning is always fun. Make sure to enjoy your journey.
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
If you are seeking scholarships, choosing a
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
Most universities offer a three or four-year undergraduate curriculum called BA (Hons.) that gives students a thorough understanding of their selected disciplines, which include English, History, and Political Science. The goal of the BA (Hons.) program is to give students analytical, critical thinking, and effective communication abilities, along with specialized knowledge of selected disciplines.
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
B.A. or B.A. (Hons.) graduates can become authors, screenwriters, content creators, or work in digital marketing.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
If you wish to improve your job prospects, going for a specialized degree makes your profile stronger, more creative, and more reliable.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
, and more. By the end of the blog, you will be able to make an informed choice to pursue the course of your liking.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
The career prospects after B.A. and B.A. (Hons.) vary depending on the specialization and further studies pursued.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Are you also finding yourself tangled in the tug-of-war between B.A. Vs. B.A. (Hons)? Don’t worry, you are NOT alone! With an increase in the choices of subjects one can pursue, there has also been a significant rise in confusion among students. After all, nobody wants to deliberately end up studying the wrong subjects for 3 to 4 years of his/her life.
A Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) and Bachelor of Arts (Hons.) degree open up diverse career prospects, providing a solid foundation in various fields. Here are some common career paths:
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
6. Content Writing and Creative Fields
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Career Prospects after B.A. and B.A. (Hons.)
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
3. Teaching and Academia
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
A B.A. or B.A. (Hons.) in Sociology, Psychology, or Political Science can lead to opportunities in social work, NGO sectors, or developmental organizations.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
What’s the Difference Between B.A. Vs. B.A. (Hons.)?
Last Name
Conclusion:
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
5. Public Relations and Advertising
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
Given that both BA and BA (Hons) are recognized as "Bachelors of Arts," one would be curious about the distinctions between the two. A BA degree requires you to study a wide range of disciplines. This implies that you will gain some knowledge in a variety of areas, such as political science, literature, geography, history, and so forth.
Please enter mobile number
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
When to Opt for a B.A. (Hons.)?
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
In this blog, we'll explore the courses B.A. and B.A. (Hons), their similarities, differences, scope,
A B.A. (Hons.) in Political Science, Economics, or Sociology can lead to roles in research, policy analysis, and think tanks.
B.A. Vs. B.A. (Hons.): Whom to Choose?
--None--
B.A. Vs. B.A.(Hons.) Decoded for You
B.A. degree
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
2. Journalism and Media
If you prefer in-depth, specialized knowledge, choose B.A. (Hons.).
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
If you are unsure about your career path, getting various subjects’ exposure will be more beneficial. Once received multiple subjects’ exposure, you can decide which subject to take forward in M.A. or any other degree.
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
The B.A. degree course fee is relatively less than the B.A. (Hons.). If you have financial limitations, you can go for a B.A. degree.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
When to Choose B.A.?
Email Address
With strong communication skills, B.A. or B.A. (Hons.) graduates can explore careers in public relations, advertising, and corporate communications.
If you wish to solidify your foundation as a researcher, go for a specialized B.A. (Hons.) degree.
1. Civil Services
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Conversely, an honors degree allows you to focus on a single area of study. Meaning, if you are pursuing B.A. (Hons.) English Literature/ English Honours, you will have to study the history of English literature in depth, making it a specialized degree. You may study some other papers like history and political science but maybe just for a semester or two, with no specialized, in-depth knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are looking for generalized knowledge about various fields, a
8. Research and Policy Analysis
4. Social Work and NGOs
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
A B.A. or B.A. (Hons.) degree in subjects like Journalism, English, or Political Science can lead to roles in journalism, media, editing, and content writing. There are opportunities in both print and digital media, as well as broadcast journalism.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
will ease your path to financial assistance.
is more suitable for you.
18/02/2025
17/09/2024
7. Law