5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
The oldest available data reveals that the forest cover of the country, as per a report published by the Forest Survey of India (FSI) in 2005, was 67.71 million hectares, which comes to 20.60% of the total geographical area of the country. The State of Forest Report 2019 released by FSI reveals that India’s forest cover now stands at 21.67%. An increase in the forest cover despite competing demands on forestland for multiple developmental projects, urbanization and socially relevant infrastructures is a matter of great satisfaction.
+91
02/01/2025
First Name
The increasing trend in the forest cover of the country is due to the successful implementation of laws and policies while undertaking forest regeneration programs and implementing compensatory afforestation programs in case of diversion of forestland for non-forestry purposes. Both central and state governments have successfully increased and diversified awareness programs on environmental protection. All schools now have eco clubs supported by the governments.
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Protection of environment
Course Type
Every enhancement in an environmental parameter like air quality, water quality or biodiversity index reflects the success in maintaining the mandated forest cover in the country. The requisite area of forest cover is at the heart of all the solutions to environmental problems that affect our lives. It is a guarantee of rich biodiversity and a good habitat for wildlife and species protection. It also indicates the capacity of forests to enhance carbon sequestration, thus mitigating climate change. Perhaps, this is the reason why forest is often called the foster mother of agriculture.
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
As per the National Forest Policy, 1988, the mandated area of forest in India is 33% of the geographical area of the country. Before the enactment of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980, there were huge diversions of forest area for multiple uses by the states such as mining, dams, roads, thermal power, irrigation and what not. Such developmental activities have always been contentious and repeatedly objected by environmentalists. However, with the enactment of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980, the strict procedural requirements successfully halted reduction of the forest cover in the country.
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
With the establishment of a separate Department of Forest and Wildlife under the Government of the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi in the early 1980s, greening of Delhi was initiated on a massive scale. Delhi’s NCT has been reeling under the pressure for modernization of infrastructure and urbanization needs. Despite several infrastructural projects and large-scale construction taking place in Delhi such as Metro, National Highway Projects, High Capacity Bus Service (HCBS), flyovers, underpasses, subways and general road widening, the forest and tree cover of Delhi has been increasing on a sustained basis from 22 sq. km. (1.48%) in 1993 to 324.44 sq. km. (21.88%) in 2019. The department carries out several environment-friendly activities such as the massive tree-planting programme, which is executed under the Government-approved Greening Delhi Action Plan.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
During my tenure under the Delhi Government, the department had granted permission to DMRC to fell trees for establishing a metro network. Around 100000 trees were allowed for felling during that time in lieu of the planting of ten times new saplings by the department and maintain them for ten years at the cost of DMRC as per the provisions of the Delhi Tree (Preservation) Act 1981. In my recent conversation held with Mr. Ishwar Singh, IFS, presently PCCF, Government of NCT of Delhi, felling permission to DMRC granted until recently was around 150000 trees. Despite such huge number of felling of trees for a public purpose, the green cover has not dipped in Delhi; on the contrary, it has shown a substantial increase. Likewise, I have been the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests in Arunachal Government for a long time and in the same rank in Andaman and Nicobar Administration for two and half years. In these territories also, the forest cover has almost remained the same despite the huge pressure on forestland by big developmental projects from such agencies as the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to name a few.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Published 12/06/2020
The writer is G N Sinha, Professor, UPES School of Law
In the end, I wish to state that there exist several misconceptions regarding the schemes, policies and programs undertaken by the government officials to protect the environment. As a citizen, it is our duty to keep oneself aware of the facts and figures, which are available on the website of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Let us all resolve to protect our nature and surroundings to have a sustainable life.
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
preserving forest
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Measurement of forest cover in the country before the 1980s was based on summing up area of all legally notified forests, which did not give the correct picture of the actual area under forest cover. In the 1980s, space satellites were deployed for remote sensing of real forest cover. Standards were introduced to classify India’s forests on parameters like very dense forest, moderately dense forest, open forest, mangrove cover and non-forestland.
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Prof. G.N. Sinha
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022