7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Leaving China and settling elsewhere
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
21/11/2024
Course Type
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
In the post COVID world, businesses will become more accountable for their actions on the climate and society. Technology giants who majorly outsource work will have to redirect their finances to include more benefits primarily for the health and wellbeing. A strong understanding in cultural management will play a key in navigating through complex ethical issues. A career in International Business would still be rewarding albeit would demand newer skills and expertise. The International Business program at the School of Business prepares a student with industry-ready future-proof skills. Thanks to the 16-year legacy of UPES, it also benefits from the expertise of other schools in imparting technical skills. With an impressive placement of 97% in 2019 and UPES ranking 56th in NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) of MHRD in the Management Category, a career in International Business is just a click away. Visit upes.ac.in to know more about the courses, and lead the changing dynamics of international business in a post-COVID world.
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Innovation will be at the heart of businesses
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
A corollary to businesses adopting remote working and shifting their offices from China would result in substantial strategic workforce changes. Skills in Human Resource management, Business Communication and Negotiations would become essential for professionals, and so will Cross-cultural management and International Marketing. Contracts would become flexible, calling for an expert on International Business laws.
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
World Economic Forum predicted that in 2020 Asia’s GDP would be greater than that of the world combined
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
International business
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
One of the few positives coming out of the COVID-19 crisis is the re-evaluation and innovation in business operations. Remotely working has become a new normal, and presumably is here to stay. This redefines personnel management, operation, logistics, and finance for businesses. A corollary to it would be International Business professionals becoming more affluent in local languages, cultures, and policies as business travels would reduce. Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, that themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world. Demand for tech skills would also go up from basic to intermediate.
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
The most significant repercussion of the COVID-19 crisis has been on production. Across industries, the global shortage of supplies is becoming a real threat. As mentioned earlier, businesses are looking to shift operations to a domestic base. This means that financial policies related to a particular base in a different country will be altered to reduce tax pressure. Additionally, businesses will rethink their international business model from scratch. An International Business professional with expertise in International Finance management, International Logistics & Supply Chain Management, and Mergers & Acquisitions & Corporate Restructuring, would be valued highly.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Tags
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Published 05/05/2020
Submit
COVID-19 pandemic is a human tragedy. It is also wreaking havoc on the global economy. Businesses of all scales are scrambling through the uncertainty of the lockdown. Restructuring, creating new roles, and financial prioritization are a few of the ways businesses are preparing themselves to sustain in this new post-COVID reality. Amidst all this, the future of international business stands bleak and worrisome. Here is a rundown of five ways international business will change and how professional can still stay relevant.
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
UPES School of Business
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
By a Correspondent
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
Change in Logistics, Supply chain, and Finance
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
World Economic Forum predicted that in 2020 Asia’s GDP would be greater than that of the world combined. Moreover, China would be the main force behind it. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, things are not looking the same for China – one of the biggest business option in the world. Businesses are shifting base and offices from China and setting up shops elsewhere. For a business professional, this calls for a specialized plan that can adapt to any country’s social and economic culture and also be adaptable to return to China in the future. The same plan of action has to be modified for domestic markets as well.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Corporate Social Responsibility will take precedence
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Strategic workforce planning
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name