+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
effective conversation
How to master the art of effective conversation
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
UPES School for Life
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
, says, “Rapidly changing career landscapes, fiercely competitive workplaces, and dynamic digital trends have further amplified the relevance of conversational abilities. According to the World Economic Forum, life skills are set to see a significant increase in demand.”
Ritam Dutta, Assistant Professor, UPES, School for Life
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
The great reset that the world witnessed in 2020 emphasised the need to develop soft skills in the current and future workforce. The ability to communicate — a fundamental aspect of human beings – was among the most in-demand skills that companies prioritised for hiring.
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
Professor Gaurav Misra, Course Leader, Living Conversations
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
Talking about the relevance of this course for the new-age learners, Dr. Shreya Upadhyay, Fulbright Nehru Scholar, Assistant Professor, School for Life, UPES, shares, “Communication is power. Once you master it, you can set the stage and conditions for managing people. Living Conversations has been planned meticulously, and the unique style of delivery of the course makes it so much fun and relevant in modern times. Students are encouraged to be creative, participate in discussions, and ask questions, which helps in developing strong analytical and critical thinking skills.”
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
. He further adds that if there is anything he has learned while teaching different languages and literature in various countries since the last 12 years is that communication is a serious business. “A meaningful conversation is not just about speaking well, but also about conscious listening. Active listening means listening to understand and not just to reply. Modules like listening for enhanced understanding and how to improve listening skills, make the course a wholesome package for the students,” Ritam says.
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
“With my own experience as a GLIK (Global Leaders for Innovation and Knowledge) fellow and a Fulbright scholar, I have realized that one must cultivate the ability to participate and converse in a variety of cultural contexts to perform in today’s dynamic world. While conceptualizing the course, we have tried to ensure experiential learning using engaged teaching methodology. The Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) approach followed here helps the learners to have a fair understanding of their performance and progress. The mentor and mentee can strategize accordingly to achieve the desired learning outcomes,” he adds.
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Preeti Aneja
The writer is Preeti Aneja, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Law
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Pooja Khanna, a Communication and Career Coach, School for Life, UPES
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
On how this course would enhance the employability of students,
In this context, the UPES School for Life started ‘Living Conversations’, a unique life skill course that empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal.
20/08/2024
, explains that all big companies today are looking for candidates having exceptional communication skills. “Preparing for an interview is a process, for which a student should start working on his/her personality from the very first day of college. Living Conversations nurtures students to express their opinions and work for a purpose. This, in the long run, aids in fostering stronger relationships and manage people efficiently, making them a perfect choice for the recruiters.”
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
“Conversation is an art everyone should strive to master to lead a successful life,” says,
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Components such as Mini Film Festival (MFF), Joke of the Day, Guest Talks are the highlights of this course. ‘Joke of the Day’, a fun activity where students share memes about daily life and learn to use humour as a tool of expression, is quite popular in the fraternity.
Published 07/01/2021
Reiterating the need for effective conversation skills,
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024
The course helps learners to understand the importance of being empathetic and the role of clarity in communication; identify appropriate strategies to improve one’s ability to express; listen and understand people in a given situation and context. They will be able to use speaking, writing, and listening skills to nurture meaningful relationships. The course also focuses on inculcating a better understanding of cross-cultural exchanges.