29th August 2019 marks the 115th birth anniversary of the hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. In order to pay a tribute to the phenomenal player, Major Dhyan Chand, the day has been marked as National Sports Day in India.
The Global Pathway Programme at UPES, international collaborations and semester exchange programs are designed to unlock potential and prepare students to become global citizens.
Trending Post
First, you want to go to a university that offers a curriculum that interests you. You would also need to think about the many variations of that subject and how they may convert into alternative programs.
Choosing a college is not an easy task, with so many different aspects to consider. If you do not give enough time or thought to this or do proper research, it could make the selection process considerably more stressful and will have a negative impact on your future. However, if you carefully evaluate all of the above-mentioned factors, along with any other that may be important for you, you will be able to find your way. Start on time and take it step-by-step, you would be able to make the best choice for your future!
+91
Campus life at UPES
National Sports Day 2019: Significance, Theme and Benefits of Sports for Students
Higher education is an important and exciting life decision, so when looking for universities, you’ll want to evaluate a variety of parameters, including academic quality, location, fees, and campus safety
Tuition is estimated to be around half of the total cost of attending college, while other expenditures may include accommodation, travel, meals, textbooks and other incidental expenses. When considering college education as an investment in one’s future, it is better to spend as little as possible while maximizing the return on that investment. There are several institutions throughout the world that provide high-quality education for low tuition costs. When selecting a university, it is critical to examine the location of the university as well as the cost of living in a certain city or country.
This is also an important consideration as some colleges have different criteria than others and you should prepare accordingly. There are colleges that will screen and accept candidates based on their Board exam scores, as well as institutions that have their own entrance exams to choose the best people for them.
Jyoti Bansal
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
First Name
UPES is a UGC-recognized university and has been accredited grade ‘A’ by NAAC. The university has received 5-Stars on Employability (placements), Academic Development, Program Strength and Campus Facilities and 4-Stars for overall teaching by globally acclaimed QS Rating. UPES offers industry-aligned and specialized graduate and postgraduate programs through its seven schools: School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Design, School of Law, School of Business, School of Health Sciences, and School of Modern Media.
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Admission prerequisites
University may be your first time living away from home. Depending on which university you attend, you may be required to relocate away from family, friends, and even your home country. As a result, you must choose whether you want to live in a city or somewhere a little smaller and calmer. Or do you want to live at home while attending college? If you move out, how far away from home do you wish to travel? Would it be easy for you to go home? Do you have friends or know anybody else who is going to the same university as you? Another critical factor is to evaluate the rent, transportation costs, food, and so on.
From school to university: Everything you need to know about the transition
Email Address
Factors to consider when choosing a university
Mobile Number
-- None --
Going to university can be a very exciting opportunity, especially if you’re going to the one away from your hometown. Studying at an institution like UPES, involves multiple unique growth opportunities that would mould you for life. Participating in the multitude of group activities, clubs, multiple classes, festivals and more can be quite an enriching experience
The true meaning of Quality Education
Another thing to think about is how a university can prepare you for the future. Whether you are continuing your education or entering the profession, it is essential to understand how your degree will help you progress in your career. Is there a service that can help you polish your resume, enhance your interview abilities, and locate employment opportunities?
Submit
A video resume showcases a candidate’s skills, qualifications, and personality to potential employers in the most impactful manner possible. It is fast replacing traditional paper resumes and cover letters.
While for some students, the shift may come easy, others, unfortunately, face a downward spiral in their academic performance as they move from school to university. Here’s a lowdown on the preparation you need to make for a smooth changeover to a higher education institution
Please select Course
--None--
of UPES.
Make sure a college is accredited before you consider it as an option. This indicates that the institution has been verified and its curriculum has been examined by an officially accredited agency to ensure that it meets the minimum academic criteria for higher education. This assures that your degree will be accepted by corporations and other higher education institutions.
It is advisable to apply to a few institutions in order to keep your options open and provide you with a sufficient number of options.
What subjects are you interested in? What sort of programmes are related to those topics? What are the admission prerequisites? These are some of the most crucial things to look for when you begin. Are you able to perform research while studying? Can you study abroad as part of an international exchange programme?
UPES Admission Enquiry
The expense of education and the cost of living
Subscribe
Select Course
Available programs and courses
Related Articles
By
Career resources
Please enter email address
10 great things about going to a university
the
Published 17/05/2022
UPES Editorial Team
Video resume: Your new-age tool to ace interviews
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Geographical location
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
Use of latest technology in the classroom ensures seamless online learning, mentoring and assessment experience. Perfect score on QS I Gauge has been a testament to the exceptional e-learning methods at UPES.
*
Course Type
Accreditation and certification
In an increasingly polarized world, there is a growing need for value education and academicians have an important role to play in the character-building of their students
privacy policy
The university has been facilitating trans-disciplinary learning and 21st century competencies through ‘School for Life’ for the holistic development of students. The ‘Industry in the Classroom’ approach prepares students to solve real-world problems. Enhanced focus on sports is also meant not just to impart important life skills, but also to bring people together and create a sense of community.
You’ve undoubtedly heard it a million times: selecting the right university is one of the most significant decisions you’ll make in your life. And it’s correct. Where you graduate from will have a long-term influence on your personal and professional life. However, many students choose a university-based on instinct or a restricted set of criteria, sometimes simply a strong hunch. While this will not prevent you from succeeding academically, such a significant decision should most likely be scrutinized more closely.
Spread across 44 acres at the foothills of the Himalayas in Dehradun, the sprawling campus boasts of a pollution-free atmosphere and a serene ambience, thereby providing a conducive environment for learning.
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
Design Your Own Degree (DYOD), lays emphasis on learner-driven learning. For example, if a learner opts for CORE subject as B.Tech. in Computer Science, he/she can choose one out of the 17 Specializations in his/her 2nd year. In addition to this, not only can he/she choose Minors from his/her chosen domain, but also choose from the various options available from other domains like Robotics, IPR and Cyber Laws or Finance.
Last Name
Written by the UPES Editorial Team