Future engineers will need to have an open mindset and be prepared for the global job market. Knowing about different work cultures gives them an opportunity to learn how their peers in other countries perform and provides a competitive edge. A well-rounded and effective engineer is the one who complements core technical knowledge with cross-cultural competence.
At the same time, networking is of utmost importance. Studying abroad expands the professional and personal network of these young engineers and helps them bag jobs in multi-national corporations.
Global opportunities
+91
The new model must include science and engineering fundamentals, technical skills and specialisation, professional practice, humanities, soft skills and social sciences. Besides industry-academia linkages, institutions should impart outcome-based education in simple, flexible and effective way.
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
Multi-disciplinary skills
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
Future engineers should have inter-disciplinary skills, leadership skills and an eagerness for life-long learning. Due to these new requirements, the engineering education system too needs changes. Competent universities regularly upgrade syllabuses after getting feedback from students who go abroad on exchange programmes.
Why Future Engineers Must Have Global Competencies
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Advances in information technology, robotics and artificial intelligence are disrupting business models worldwide and triggering macro-economic shifts. As certain technologies mature and automation helps innovation flourish to bring cost savings, engineering talent needs to be trained and exposed to international experiences.
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
School of Engineering
Dr. Ugur Guven
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
The writer is Dr Ugur GUVEN, Advisory Council Member, UN Centre for Space Science and Space Technology Education in Asia and Pacific (CSSTEAP)
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
With scholarships and grants, the government too can encourage students to visit engineering institutes overseas and bring back key learnings to work on national priorities like sustainable energy solutions, low-cost but high-quality manufacturing, mass transit transportation, smart cities, water management, universal healthcare, mitigating natural calamities and waste disposable systems. This can lead to immense socio-economic benefits.
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
As digitisation and automation increasingly take over the role of humans in repetitive, time-consuming functions across various industries, it is imperative to structurally reorient the engineering education paradigm.
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Practicing engineers and educators in India must proactively revamp engineering education to address socio-technological challenges. They should revisit engineering curriculum and related educational courses for rapid pace of change in an unpredictable world. The curriculum should be responsive to disparate learning styles to accommodate young students who are creative and productive.
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
engineering at UPES
engineers
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Communicating, networking
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
Coming years will see a core need for engineers who are able to work in a diverse, multi-national, multi-disciplinary environment that sparks innovation and creative thinking. It is a universally accepted fact that engineers with a multi-cultural exposure are able to overcome challenges with greater ease than those with just classical training. Indian students studying various streams of engineering should bear this in mind for career advancement.
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
The profession has become global in nature over the years with major companies having presence in various countries to reach more markets and leverage local workforce for operational efficiencies. New-age skills also make a person receptive to world-class standards of safety and quality.
Cross-cultural experiences through an exchange programme during education can brighten career prospects substantially. In some countries like France, it is mandatory for all students to spend at least four months abroad either for internship or for taking courses in an educational institution before they are allowed to graduate with the title of an engineer.
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Employers generally look for sociable employees who can solve problems effectively beyond crunching numbers and filing reports. Students must learn to work with others through language barriers and cultural etiquette obstacles. Leveraging these skills can set you apart from others. Employers are rarely satisfied with engineers having classical backgrounds.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
While studying abroad, a student is exposed to new conversations and learnings. This improves communication skills and enhances capability to use different techniques for solving technical problems. Engineering breakthroughs are a result of hard work, dedication and exchange of ideas, much of which happens in various geographies.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
The benefits of global cooperation in education, science and trade are too powerful to ignore. Many institutions are working to define and develop engineering-focused learning opportunities. Engineering programmes are raising the bar of quality education and placing more emphasis on critical thinking, communication and collaboration skills than ever before.
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Employers prefer those applicants who are willing to travel, have experience of doing so and can represent their brand in a positive manner. Learning a new language can also prove to be an asset. An engineer is someone who looks at problems, considers the risk and plots the best course of action. One should be open to learning new things, taking on new challenges, and solving problems in new and informative ways. The risks are low, but rewards are limitless.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
Published 14/01/2020
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
Due to global challenges and competition, job markets, companies and supply chains have become complex. Engineering services are often outsourced to countries that can provide the best value or the lowest cost. Thus companies require engineers with analytic skills, passion and inclination to understand the business context and adapt to changing conditions.
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?