Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
+91
12/09/2024
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24, 2021, held an online interaction with the finalists of Toycathon 2021 where he mentioned the two greatest strengths of India – tradition and technology. The PM also appealed to the country’s youth about self-reliance and coming up with local solutions in the world of toys and digital gaming.
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Mansha Dhingra
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
Please enter first name
“Multiple rounds of interviews and panels were held with Dr. Abhay Jere, Dr. Mohit Gambhir and Dr. Sahasrabudhe from AICTE before the interaction with Prime Minister. PM Narendra Modi was impressed with all the games, ranging from chemistry, trigonometry, Artificial Intelligence (AI) AI to health and Ayurveda,” adds Dr. Ashish Karn.
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Dr. Sunil Rai, Vice-Chancellor, UPES, says, “Project Arogya is an incredible effort in the direction of interdisciplinary and collaborative innovations and development at UPES. The efforts of students are praiseworthy, and the guidance of faculty is exemplary. The team of faculty and students has made UPES proud. I wish them all the best in their endeavours to continue their journey through excellence.”
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Students and faculty from UPES School of Engineering, Design and Computer Science were amongst the finalists in the Toycathon 2021. Out of the nearly 2000 teams competing at the Toycathon, project Arogya led by Dr. Ashish Karnfrom Department of Mechanical Engineering, UPES was selected to be presented before PM Modi.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
A subscriber email already exists.
Says Dr. Karn, “Modi ji appreciated the initiative and called our game the ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’. The Prime Minister further suggested that the elements of preventive health care must be included in this game since it is the first principle of health. He also entrusted the team with the responsibility of creating awareness about the nation’s battle against malnutrition. He was happy with our innovative game on Ayurveda and emphasized that a kids’ version of the game should also be designed to simplify things for them. We are constantly working to incorporate the comments given by him and to bring this game to fruition.”
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
Published 07/07/2021
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
Toycathon
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Toycathon is an endeavour by the Indian government to create an ecosystem for the domestic toy industry and the local manufacturers, utilizing the available resources and their potential. In this hackathon, students and teachers, design experts, and start-ups come together to develop toys and games that are based on Indian culture and ethos, local folklore and heroes, and Indian value systems.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
As part of the initiative Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Union Education Minister of India Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, and Union Minister for Women and Child Development and Textiles Smriti Zubin Irani jointly, launched the Toycathon 2021. Toycathon was conceived as an event to crowd-source innovative toys and game ideas. It sought to tap into the one-billion-dollar toy market, involving the innovation and expertise of the nation’s 33 crore students and developing India as the global toy manufacturing hub.
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Toycathon is based on varied themes such as Indian culture, history, ethos, learning, education and schooling, social and human values, occupations and other fields, environment, Divyang – fitness, and sports. It encourages out-of-the-box, creative, and logical thinking and reviving traditional Indian toys.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
board game Aarogya
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Talking about the innovative project Arogya, Dr. Ashish Karn from UPES School of Engineering says, “Arogya is a physical board game that aptly fits into the Toycathon’s theme of ‘Fitness and Sport’. The game was conceived and ideated jointly by Dr. Abhay Kumar and me. We also got immense support from our colleague Mr. Pankaj Badoni, Assistant Professor, at UPES School of Computer Science, who helped us with the graphics and the design of the board. After several tireless trials and sessions, we could craft a game that made it to the selected seven teams who interacted with the honourable Prime Minister on June 24.”
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
In a great display of multidisciplinary approach towards innovation, students Rahul, Shorya Kansal and Paritosh Pancholi and faculty Pankaj Badoni from UPES School of Computer Science worked with Dr. Ashish Karn and Dr. Abhay Kumar from UPES School of Engineering and Manas Ranjan Mishra from UPES School of Design to prepare various components of the game.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Last Name
Toycathon 2021