, I present to you interesting and doable takeaways, which would give that desired push to your creativity quotient.
Creative Problem Solving
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
3. Be organic:
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
Shakti
+91
Let the creativity flow through you instead of focusing too much on the outcome. It must be free-flowing, rhythmic, abstract and organic but it should never be re-revised and outcome-based. Why don’t you try to sing a song right now, as you read? Farah Khan and Sonu Nigam are not judging you so be yourself. Let loose.
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Creativity is organic and comes naturally to people. It is not restricted to the strokes of a paintbrush. It is also creative when you introduce yourself associating yourself with an animal or vegetable, the way you break the ice with acquaintances, the way you design and present your PowerPoint presentations, the way you negotiate your points working in a team and even the way you design your Snapchat and Instagram stories. Working on an assignment without using google and putting efforts on the content is also an expression of creativity and would program your mind to be more self-reliant going forward.
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Ms. Brahmleen Kaur Sabharwal
Creativity is not a gift that someone gets you in a beautiful wrapping sheet or decorated confetti. It is within you, in your core; you just need to work on that invisible muscle to make it stronger, just like your biceps. It may surprise you as students that you have been unknowingly doing this for years. Things like working on your vocabulary, coming up with instant excuses when in a soup, cooking up stories to protect your friends from their parents or teachers, your DIY gifts when there is cash crunch to buy something fancy, your room decoration, your doodling, the funny nicknames you keep for each other, the list is long. You all are already creative; some of you have met your creative side and others are still exploring or have not explored at all.
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
Creativity is organic and comes naturally to people
, the marquee leadership development program at UPES, and a recent course on
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
University of Minnesota
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
If you try to remember, your childhood memories would reflect some moments of creative indulgence. When we are young, we understand the importance of creativity, imagination and expression, but as we grow up it gets lost along the way. Try to find your old scrapbooks, childhood art and craft stuff, painting, diary or anything that you can reflect and try to re-connect with your creative insight. You can also try to recreate something in your leisure time.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Lastly, just remind yourself of how wonderful you have always been throughout your childhood. You are an original and there is no second copy of you – that surely makes you unique. You can try matching your fingerprints with anyone to prove how unique you are. So, believe me; you are wonderful and better when you are the best version of yourself!
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Creativity is a skill that can be developed, however, it requires continuous efforts by the seekers. Many students believe that they are not creative by nature or do not feel creative anymore. Let me break that myth for you: Creativity is like sprouts; it is within you. All you need to do is soak yourself in imagination.
Please Select Course Type
Published 29/01/2024
A subscriber email already exists.
Always remember to get inspired before you start working on something.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
5. Remind yourself of how wonderful you are:
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4. Do not be hard on yourself:
from the
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
creativity
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
2. Stop overthinking:
Owing to my experiential learning from
1. Re-live your childhood memories:
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
through
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Creativity does not have limitations so kindly do not be over critical about yourself. Do not overthink whether you can or cannot; whether you will be able to do things perfectly or not. Creativity should flow like music or feelings; it does not have to be calculative like mathematics. Try to be expressive and avoid overthinking.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
The writer is Ms Brahmleen Kaur Sabharwal, Faculty, Department of Humanities, UPES
Creativity is within you, in your core; you just need to work on that invisible muscle to make it stronger, just like your biceps
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Coursera
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name