2. Believe in the power of affirmations
3. Believe in your uniqueness. Yes, you are different!
The ultimate fact and truth is that we have been trained and conditioned all through our lives to doubt ourselves. We have an inherent fear of losing. We must reorient ourselves to remove our fears and self-doubt in order to build self-worth and confidence.
+91
Sometimes it is an echo of previous mistakes, and sometimes it is a fear of present or upcoming challenges.
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Here are the five most essential stages to learning how to believe in yourself. Imbibe them and you will be astonished at the results:
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
Ronald Alexander, a noted leadership consultant, writes in his bestseller  ‘Wise Mind, Open Mind’” that in order to be successful you really need to get rid of negative self-talk and judgements.
19/09/2024
You need to understand the importance of self-love. Recognize your worth and never brush aside the power of embracing yourself for the good deeds that you have done and forgive yourself for all the misfortunes you encountered. There is always a ray of hope to shine again. There is a sunshine after every storm. Feel valued, feel loved, believe that you are a rock star! Love yourself unconditionally.
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Accomplishment is always about persistence, fortitude and the power of self-belief. Hindrances and denials are a part of any great endeavor, so we must feel optimistic and constantly remind ourselves that after every night there is a dawn. Rejections and setbacks help us explore, nurture, and evolve as a better version of ourselves. It develops a winning mindset through which we can conquer all our problems and surge ahead on the path to everlasting happiness.
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
1. Treat yourself well
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
If you feel demotivated to take charge of your life and actions, you are either living to someone else’s expectations, or you simply do not believe in your potential.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
The biggest tragedies of our professional and personal lives happen when we stop believing in ourselves. Whether it is low self-esteem, self-limiting beliefs, lack of self-reliance, or fear of doing something out of our comfort zone, the result is often seriously damaging.
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
self-esteem
By
the
09/01/2025
Embrace yourself as you are, not as you ought to be, or as someone else wants you should be. You are different. Unleash your uniqueness. You will find one. We all have our own abilities, skills, and flairs that make us extraordinary. We usually do not have a fair idea of our competencies. The most challenging thing to do in life is to accept how different and unique we really can be.
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
5. Be persistent
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
4. Practice gratitude and be action oriented
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
Published 15/05/2020
20/08/2024
build self-confidence
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
When you believe in yourself, you first have to believe that what you aspire or want is really within your reach. Believe in positive self-talk; convert all the negatives into positives, refrain from using the words – I cannot, it is impossible, I am worthless, nobody loves me, I am a loser, etc. Rescript it, start using I can, I will, it is possible, I am capable, I am doing it now, I am a winner. In fact, the mind is such a powerful instrument, it can deliver literally everything you want through the power of positive affirmations.
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Abhishek Verma
The writer is Abhishek Verma, Assistant Director, Career Services Team, UPES
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Remember, whatever you attain in life is a result of your belief in yourself.
Nurture the attitude of gratitude, feel thankful for the good things you have as it makes you contended and elated from inside. It makes you feel positive and only a positive mind can result in positive actions. Take charge of your life. You have the potential to surpass any storm.
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024