5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
They all are early birds, who rise between 6 and 7 am, they all exercise, gym, run or walk, and all of them read some motivational book in the morning before they hit their place of work. Not to forget, they all attribute their success to their effective habits.
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Make yourself happy by rewarding with a small incentive or positive feedback every time you take action to form a new habit.
Course Type
So, what should be the strategy to form new habits?
How many of you promise yourself every day to change your wrong habit(s) and build new ones? But finding it difficult, exhaustive and frustrating, give up on it?  That’s because you are applying the wrong strategy.
by
When you are rewarded, you feel satisfied and happy. When you are satisfied and happy, you tend to repeat the behaviour.
Set a fixed time and location for the activity (like reading or exercising), which you are going to start.
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
1. Make it Obvious
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
They all represent different start-ups evolved from different ideas, having different personalities with different thought processes, yet they all have one thing in common i.e. their HABITS.
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
‘Small, Consistent and Continuous Action’.
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
For example, if you form a new habit of getting up early, you can go cycling or go to the gym in the morning as well as can have ample time to get ready for the office.
*
Habits form our personality and our identity; they make us happy or unhappy, successful or unsuccessful.
Think of what all you will be able to do when you have formed a new habit.
For example, from July 1st, 2020, I will start exercising in the morning between 8 am–9 am for a minimum of five minutes every day.
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
These four steps form a habit loop. So, follow them every day without fail, as a ritual. The loop must not be broken. The key to building a habit is
Trending Post
Attach a factor of fun or reward with the new habit
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
effective habits
Ritesh Agarwal, CEO, Oyo rooms; Divya Gokulnath Co-founder Byju’s; Ankit Bhati, Co-founder, Ola; Richa Kar, Founder, Zivame; Amit Jain, CEO, Car Dekho; Sriharsha Majety, CEO, Swiggy.
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Monika Jugran
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Make things easily available to you to start the habit. Keep your book you are planning to start reading, placed at a prominent place in the room.
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Attach a factor of fun or reward with the new habit.
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
4.  Make it Satisfying
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
Find it difficult to build a new habit? You may have been applying the wrong strategy all this while. Learn about a foolproof way to form effective habits and achieve success in life
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
3. Make it Easy
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Take a baby step every time; start with the tiny habits. Start with five minutes every day. Yes, I am serious! And you can afford it, right?
A habit is a certain behaviour, which is repeated over a period of time to get ingrained in us. It can be anything – a habit of an addiction, a habit of reading, a habit of taking stress or getting angry easily, a habit of keeping fit, or a habit of taking things negatively or positively.
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
4 successful mantras to develop effective habits
Published 30/06/2020
Practice the new habit consistently even it is for five minutes every day and extend the time gradually once you get into the process.
Give clear and obvious instructions to your brain about starting a new habit.
23/08/2024
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
Can you guess what is common among all these young entrepreneurs?
2. Make it Attractive
Related Articles
14/08/2024
The writer is Monika Jugran, accomplished life skills trainer and grooming expert
Here are the four simple, researched and proven steps from the New York Times bestselling book,
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
Long-term goals are daunting and difficult to achieve. Keep a very small target your mind knows you can achieve easily.
30/08/2024
James Clear:
“Atomic Habits”
Immediate reward brings a feeling of immediate success, even if it is a small one.
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022