Since then, so much has changed in the last few decades or so. Our lives now revolve around social media. Newspaper circulation has seen considerable decline across the world as people, by force of habit, have started relying on social media like Facebook and Twitter, to get their daily dose of news and views.
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
There used to be a time when reading a newspaper would be our first priority while sipping a steaming cup of tea in the morning. It was a time when electronic media was in its infancy and social media had not yet invaded our lives.
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Published 27/09/2022
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
In a survey conducted a few years ago in the US, 50 percent of internet users surveyed revealed that they hear about the latest news via social media before even hearing about it on TV.
12/08/2024
25/07/2024
*
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Things get complicated when readers fail to do fact-checking. They tend to accept what they see, read and hear, as gospel truth. So, the fake news horse has already bolted from the stable and it is off and running.
According to an article published in the BBC website, in 2016, before the US election, at least 140 fake news websites which were pulling in huge numbers on Facebook, were identified. Here, once again, the role of Facebook algorithms in spreading fake viral stories, came into play.
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
As a matter of practice, many internet users will see the breaking stories on their feed and go to the news sites to get more details. Interestingly, the survey found 57 percent increase in traffic to news sites happened because of social media.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Image credit: Shutterstock
Aditya Mukherjee
It is evident that social media and your friends exercise considerable control over what news pieces you see and what you do not.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
school of modern media
Once a story goes viral on Facebook or Twitter, every other newspaper latches on to the same story and updates them on their respective websites to draw traffic. Both the print and electronic media have to keep up with the Joneses to stay afloat.
By
the
09/01/2025
The media is battling for relevance in the age of internet and the commodification of news has changed journalism globally. The onus is on us to engage in distinguishing opinion from fact and bluster from evidence in the new, post-truth world we live in.
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
How social media has changed the way we consume news
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
In India, with the advent of social media, the reading habit among people has shown considerable decline. It has been seen that most people prefer to scroll through their newsfeed and, if necessary, read the headlines or watch a short video clip of the piece.
However, despite the stranglehold of social media, India is all set to become the world’s fifth biggest newspaper market in terms of revenue by 2026 and have the largest newspaper readership, overtaking China by 2025.
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
As the print media battles for relevance in the age of internet, we must engage in distinguishing opinion from fact and bluster from evidence in the new, post-truth world we live in
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
Fake news and social media
Given the increasing spread of misinformation, purveyors of fakery have a field day everywhere. Fake video clips, news stories with morphed media logos, bots, paid commentators have become par for the course.
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
There is no denying that after the advent of social media and internet, fake news started to spread its tentacles. Globally there is a growing manipulation of algorithms of social media and search engines to reach larger audiences and mislead news consumers.
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Social media ensures what news piece you see
However, social platforms seem to rule the roost when it comes to news and information we consume. Our social media friends have donned the role of editors deciding what we see. An article is generally “liked” and shared multiple times before many people see it in their feed.
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
In the age of social media, news travels at the speed of light. With attention span narrowing, today’s news will be tomorrow’s fish and chip paper. It’s a dog-eat-dog world out there.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The proliferation of many fake news websites with their viral posts is a cause for great concern. These websites try to draw traffic with their questionable content and disinformation as sensational headlines and fatuous storylines ride roughshod over truth and facts.
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
While there is free flow of information thanks to the ubiquity of social media, it is worth always checking sources and not taking headlines as truth.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Social media and the changing pattern of news consumption
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024