Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
Nutritionists help people follow a healthy lifestyle by providing regular guidance, encouragement and motivation.
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
How to become a nutritionist
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology. The interdisciplinary program focusses on the aspects of research focussed on nutritional science. Apart from this, it involves the study of food management, promotion of health through healthy food and focuses on the relation between body and food. The university gives emphasis on theoretical and practical aspects as well. Also, the university aims at preparing employable industry-ready professionals. Providing excellent internship and job opportunities, with leading healthcare and pharmaceutical companies; let us understand why pursuing food, nutrition, and dietetics in UPES is extremely beneficial.
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Now, let us have a look at the different types of opportunities dietitian and nutritionists offer. Clinical dietitians, community dietitians, management dietitians, and consultant dietitians are some of the job opportunities for students. Each of these positions offers different career options, such as food nutrition services in hospitals, schools, and colleges, nutrition counseling in public health agencies and fitness clubs or clinical management in food service systems.
school of health sciences
Scope of nutritionist
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
With so many lifestyle diseases like high blood pressure, obesity or diabetes on its rise, educating people to follow a healthy lifestyle and eating habits is an important job today. Nutritionists have a lot of job opportunities in the upcoming times. They can work as self-employed entrepreneurs, as well as in hospital settings, schools, organizations and a variety of holistic and alternative medicine environments. Depending on their level of education, nutritionists can be in high demand in food and health-related businesses as well.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Hurry! Apply for B.Sc  Food, Nutrition and Dietetics in UPES right now!
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
Published 09/10/2019
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Nutritionists and dieticians are experts in food and nutrition. They can help patients choose the right foods to eat, help them plan healthy diets, and also explain to them the health benefits or hazards of certain foods. Nutritionists assess a patient’s current dietary habits and needs, educate them on healthy eating habits, follow up to ensure the diets are working and then finally evaluate or analyse a patient’s progress.
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Well! To begin with, let us explain what exactly it means to be a nutritionist.  Nutritionists help people follow a healthy lifestyle by providing regular guidance, encouragement and motivation. They discuss the pros and cons of specific diets and food trends, and what impact does it have on their health. A nutritionist may also test some specific food allergies or autoimmune disorders such as celiac disease (gluten intolerance) or lactose intolerance.
Please select Course
A nutritionist might also speak to groups, such as schools or businesses, about good nutrition and preventing many autoimmune health problems only through healthy foods. After all, “You are what you eat.” Nutritionists frequently work closely with individuals who have medical issues, such as those with diabetes, arthritis, thyroid, hypertension or those undergoing chemotherapy, to help them find the right foods to eat for their best possible health.
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Last Name