5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Legal systems are undergoing a massive transformation with Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning penetrating different aspects of the law. AI assistance will help in making the law fairer and more transparent when it is designed and implemented properly. Human oversight, however, will always remain crucial. The courts will always be the ultimate authority for making decisions. Hence, it is imperative that we prepare our students to become skilled in technology, in addition to mastering their core subjects.
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
The use of AI and ML in document analysis, especially, can significantly cut down the time and cost involved in the process as well as reduce biases such as false positives.
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
offering LLM with a specialisation in AI and ML. This course will enrich students’ understanding and skill set in this area, with the support of experienced practitioners who can demonstrate real-life examples to contextualise what one learns.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Machine Learning Law LLM Masters in Law
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Shanghai’s Intermediate People’s Court in China, in 2019, used an AI-assistive system for the first time in a criminal trial. The technology was able to distinguish between people. It helped in authenticating evidence and transcribing courtroom discussions.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
In recent years, legal systems across the world have adopted AI and ML to operate more efficiently by automating increasingly complex tasks. A report titled ‘Shaping the Future of Judicial Knowledge’ by the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI) states that AI and ML are being used to help judges in analysing facts, processing courtroom discussions, assisting lawyers in legal research, as well as document review and drafting.
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Why you should choose UPES School of Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
Published 18/03/2021
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
UPES School of Law is one of the few higher education institutions
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
The Pyrrho Investments Limited versus MWB Property Limited dispute, a British case, involved around 3 million documents. The cost of the manual review was projected to be millions of pounds. The High Court, hence, agreed to permit ‘predictive coding’ or technology-assisted review. The lawyers fed the relevant documents pool to the machine learning platform, which categorised the documents based on relevance.
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
UNICRI Report: Shaping the Future of Judicial Knowledge
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
AI and ML can also be used in clearing the backlog of cases. In India, around 4 crore cases are pending in the Supreme Court, High Courts, and District Courts of the country (as of September 2020), according to a written reply submitted by the Ministry of Law and Justice in the Parliament. An artificially intelligent platform can perform case research involving heavy data within seconds, speeding up the judicial process. This will also reduce the expenditure and improve the profit-making ability and proficiency of law firms.
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
In February 2013, the Wisconsin Department of Corrections in the US charged a citizen Eric Loomis to six years of prison for his role in a drive-by shooting case. The judiciary while preparing for sentencing the offender included the risk assessment of COMPAS, an AI algorithm, in the Pre-Sentence Investigation. The COMPAS assessment estimated the possibility of Loomis committing more crimes based on an interview with him and his past criminal record.
Press Information Bureau
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Artificial Intelligence
Courthouses, consultancies, law firms and international organisations will, therefore, require professionals who are adaptable, dynamic, and well-versed with technology. Law schools need to equip students with new patterns of practice and innovative tools of management. Such law students will become the future of legal services.
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Criminal Cases
UPES
UPES has several industry experts and former judges on its advisory board. It is the first Indian university to partner with UK-based The University of Law for legal studies. Given its industry-oriented programs and emphasis on holistic development, UPES graduates are a preferred choice for recruiters, ensuring a track record of 90% + placements over the last few years.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
upes school of law
References:
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022