5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
To achieve the global environmental temperature reduction of two degrees by 2050 as per the Paris Agreement of 2015, it is time to explore the warehouse of renewable energy and utilise it efficiently by opening the market for private players. However, care must be taken to provide a level playing field by creating a regulatory framework to comply fair and transparent process to avoid litigation.
Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs) have successfully used solar energy to fulfil the demand for energy-efficient lighting with low consumption cost. Its mass production has also led to the creation of local jobs.
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
India’s current strategic petroleum reserve capacity is 40 million barrels, which covers just over 10 days of current net imports
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is Dr Rakesh Kumar Chopra, Professor, UPES School of Law
The Government of India spelt out its policy objectives in 2015 that sustainable energy should be available to all its citizens within affordable price. The reforms in the energy sector have been carried out in a phased manner by upgrading the existing non-renewable sources, generating renewable sources of energy through ‘Make in India’ to become self-reliant and permitting the best technologies to operate in the country.
Reforms in the energy sector
Course Type
Coal sector was opened around a decade back for bidding purposes but was cancelled due to defects in the selection criteria, which created a stalemate for around six years. However, on June 18th, 2020, 41 coal blocks were opened for commercial bidding.
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
A long-term national energy policy, private investors’ participation, enhanced dedicated emergency stock and learning from the best practices will help in achieving the targets set out in the Paris Agreement.
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
Non-Renewable Energy
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
India’s efforts on environment protection started with the enactment of the Environment Protection Law in 1986, which was last modified in 2018 to minimize the adverse impact of human activities on the environment. Although a lot still needs to be done, it can be said that India is implementing the Paris Agreement in its true spirit. The country has taken concrete steps to reduce the impact of greenhouse gases and provide better living conditions to its people.
India’s domestic gas production has been below forecast levels over the past few years. Gas has been used more extensively in residential and transport sectors but it has fallen in power generation, where imported natural gas remains a second option due to the low cost of renewables and coal. Therefore, there is a good scope of opening the natural gas market by strengthening regulatory supervision of upstream, midstream and downstream activities as part of the market reform. This will bring greater efficiency, drive up demand for gas and increase investment in gas generation, transportation and distribution.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
India is committed to Goal 7 of the United Nations Sustainable Development (UNSD) Goals of delivering energy access and has been able to decrease emissions by more than 20% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the past decade. However, carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are still rising. India’s per capita emissions currently are 1.6 tons of CO2, which is still well below the global average of 4.4 tons, while its share of global total CO2 emissions is around 6.4%.
Please enter first name
The non-renewable sources of energy in the form of fossil fuels such as coal, petroleum and natural gas are used in power plants, refineries and Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) terminals, which have long plant life. Therefore, they cannot be completely abandoned but used in a manner such that the carbon emissions are well within the permissible levels and the output produced is environmentally complied.
Mobile Number
Submit
Dr. Rakesh Kumar Chopra
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
India’s current strategic petroleum reserve capacity is 40 million barrels, which covers just over 10 days of current net imports. However, with the expected growth in oil consumption, this reserve will last only for four days of net imports by 2040. Therefore, it is high time to pursue the strategic stockholding policy in the next phase to have an additional 50 million barrels as reserve capacity and accordingly the government is attracting potential investors to enhance stockholding.
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
The current share of natural gas in the country’s energy mix is 6%, which the government aims to increase to 15% by 2030. This will provide an opportunity to improve environmental sustainability and flexibility in its energy system.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India is the fourth-largest oil refiner, a net exporter of refined products and the third-largest consumer of oil. Therefore, our dependency on oil consumption is quite high and is likely to cross China by the end of 2020. This provides an opportunity to create an attractive market investment in the refinery sector. Accordingly, the government made a long-term roadmap to expand its refining capacity by considering the current projected demand until 2040. India is unable to fulfil its local demand due to limited oil reserves and dependence on the import of crude oil (which was 80% as of 2018).  To fill the gap, the government has prioritised reducing oil imports, increasing domestic upstream activities, diversifying its sources of supply and increasing investments in overseas oil fields in the Middle-East and Africa on a long-term basis to get crude at a consistent price.
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Amid the coronavirus crisis, the power sector is facing a challenge because of lower utilization of fossil fuels and related financing issues. To meet this challenge, a comprehensive plan has been formulated by the Indian government. It is expected that the creation of a wholesale power market will be competitive and enhance the power generation capacity. To remove the imbalances and ensure national energy security, it is essential to create a single national power gird with emphasis on encouraging investments in the power sector – both greenfield and brownfield – by debottlenecking the existing plants to produce emission-free output. Private companies operating globally, which were engaged in thermal energy for installing the power plants are now actively participating in solar and hydel energy also.
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
Let us examine the reforms carried out in the energy sector by India, which have a direct impact on the environment and the steps required to move forward.
India has been able to provide round-the-clock electricity within affordable price to around 750 million people in the last ten years. The country has also been able to reduce the conventional use of biomass by providing Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) with clean cooking, thus improving the living standards of people.
To achieve an uninterrupted growth in the power sector, the existing system needs to tackle the issues of integration and flexibility by providing inter-connectivity between non-renewable and renewable energy-based power plants. The new coal-based power plants are efficient, flexible and relatively low in emissions, thereby complying with the stringent pollution norms. Such plants are in a better position due to their economic viability compared to the older ones, requiring modifications but expensive to comply with environmental standards. Therefore, there is a need to identify those plants, which can be made environment-complied and can improve system performance.
Notably, until 2018, India’s investment in solar power was greater than that of all fossil fuel sources of electricity combined. This was possible through large-scale auctions, which contributed to the development of renewable energy at rapidly decreasing prices. The government is attracting global companies to produce solar photovoltaic (PV), lithium batteries, solar charging, cooling, electric mobility, smart grids and advanced biofuels.
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
How India is implementing the Paris Agreement
The way forward and recommendations
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
To begin with, renewable energy will act as a support to the existing energy sources. However, in times to come, it will take the lead. This approach will be able to provide a systematic transformation in energy generation, enabling energy security through a unified grid.
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
The expected energy demand as per the current projection is likely to double by 2040, with electricity demand increasing three times due to increased use of electric appliances combined with India’s cooling needs, which may require one billion air conditioning units by 2050. If India can raise the level of its energy efficiency by 2040 by using energy-efficient tools, it will save around USD 190 billion per year in energy imports and avoid electricity generation of 875 terawatt-hours per year, almost half of India’s current annual power generation.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Natural Gas
With the above position as on date, India has taken significant steps to improve energy efficiency and has been able to reduce the additional annual energy demand by 15 % (i.e. 300 million tons of CO2 emissions reduction during 2000 to 2018). Looking at the steps taken to reduce the emissions intensity and increase the share of non-fossil fuels in its power generation capacity, one can safely mention that India complies with the Nationally Determined Contribution as per the Paris Agreement.
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
India has taken concrete steps to reduce the impact of greenhouse gases on the environment and provide better living conditions to people. Although a lot still needs to be done, it can be said that the country is implementing the Paris Agreement in its true spirit
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Published 30/06/2020
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Renewable Energy
Related Articles
Coal
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Currently, India is focusing on innovative technologies as it has increased its spending two times over a period of five years under its ‘Mission innovation’ with the participation of government, public and private sector. India deployed 84 GW of grid-connected renewable electricity capacity, with total generating capacity of 366 GW in 2019 and intends to achieve 175 GW of renewables by 2022, which is possible by having a focus on the flexibility required for effective system integration.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022