5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Companies like Telenor have already devised a digital curriculum targeted at children aged between 5-15 years, to help them navigate the potential risks and challenges of how the digital world functions. The curriculum explores the positive behaviours needed to be kind and respectful online, and examines online risks, negative behavior, hate speech, and fake news. It also hand-holds them into seeking help and healing in case of a bad situation.
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Laws also need to be granted more teeth in terms of doling out harsh penalties and punishments to combat any toxic situation on their social media. This action, in turn, underscores the need to have clear, well-defined and transparent policies for social media services provided and the resultant penalties in case of any breach. Content moderation, restricted advertising and ensuring the proliferation of positive age-appropriate content are other ways to ensure children are safeguarded legally, online.
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
Is it time to develop social media laws for kids?
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Published 08/08/2023
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
Trolling, cyberstalking, cyberbullying and doxing are the new forms of harassment millions of children and teens are dealing with everyday, over their social media accounts. The statistics in India are equally worrisome. While across the world, children and teens are being encouraged to be more conversant with technology and internet access, it turns out that Indian children are the most bullied in the virtual world.
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Dr. Abhishek Sinha
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
The writer is Dr. Abhishek Sinha, Dean, UPES School of Law
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
But these are just small steps in this direction. In the end, the buck stops at the parents and teachers. While having open communication with children and teens about the perils of social media usage is encouraged by experts, it’s also time to consider other factors like stressing a three-way handshake between parents, government and industry. The latter must devise and find ways to ensure that the data and privacy of children are protected from being leaked and falling into the wrong hands. This also means that the government and policymakers must frame some laws and rules that make it mandatory for every social media platform to adhere to this requirement. Hence, responsible design is the need of the hour.
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
These are the findings of 2022 Consumer Mobile Threat Report’ by cyber-security research firm McAfee which further adds, “Approximately, 75 per cent children think a new phone is more secure than a new computer, whereas only 71 per cent of parents agree. “In India, 57 per cent of parents use passwords to protect mobile devices, while only 43 per cent of children and teens do, creating safety risks. At least 39 per cent parents of boys aged 10-14 put mobile parental controls software on their children’s devices compared to 33 percent for girls of the same age.”
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Perhaps it’s time to devise social media laws for kids and teens. In fact, concerned over the rising cases of suicide and toxic attacks on the youngsters online, the states of Utah and Arkansas in the US have moved swiftly to devise social media regulations for them. On the other side of the globe, UK’s Online Safety Bill and the EU’s Digital Services Act are making social media companies keep children secure from harmful content. Many advocacy groups and other concerned bodies have sparked off conversations and action in some cases, to ensure there are ways to not just do an online age verification of social media users but also to ensure that an equal emphasis is given to parental consent. Therefore, companies and organizations specializing in social media have to design and align their platforms accordingly, eventually.
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022