A trait that is important in order to become successful is good leadership skills. While you are on the playfield, you will learn how to talk to other teammates, manage team emotions, take decisions for the team, and so on. These skills will make you a successful leader.
Trending Post
Last Name
+91
National Sports Day 2019: Significance, Theme and Benefits of Sports for Students
Higher education is an important and exciting life decision, so when looking for universities, you’ll want to evaluate a variety of parameters, including academic quality, location, fees, and campus safety
29th August 2019 marks the 115th birth anniversary of the hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. In order to pay a tribute to the phenomenal player, Major Dhyan Chand, the day has been marked as National Sports Day in India. A great hockey player Major Dhyan Chand had won many Olympic Gold Medals for India. This significant day is marked to spread awareness about physical activity, sports, and overall health. It is celebrated in academic institutions and sports academies by organising different types of fitness drives and sports like hockey, football, marathons, walkathons and so on.  Every year, the day has a different theme. This year the theme is Fit India, Young India.  This year the theme emphasizes the importance of sports and other physical activities in order to build a Fit, Healthy, and Youthful India.
Jyoti Bansal
Improve academic excellence:
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
First Name
Please enter first name
national sports day
Please enter mobile number
From school to university: Everything you need to know about the transition
Email Address
In the following article, we will talk about the several health benefits of sports and physical activity in our daily life.
All the physical activities or sports require time and energy. Sports enhances the cognitive memory functions of the brain, sharpens learning skill sets that will help students excel academically.
www.culturalindia.net
Discipline:
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Factors to consider when choosing a university
Mobile Number
Tags
-- None --
Going to university can be a very exciting opportunity, especially if you’re going to the one away from your hometown. Studying at an institution like UPES, involves multiple unique growth opportunities that would mould you for life. Participating in the multitude of group activities, clubs, multiple classes, festivals and more can be quite an enriching experience
Sports teaches mental and physical discipline. You learn to follow rules and regulations, obey the coach, time management, practicing restraint and all forms of discipline which is required throughout your life.
Submit
The true meaning of Quality Education
A video resume showcases a candidate’s skills, qualifications, and personality to potential employers in the most impactful manner possible. It is fast replacing traditional paper resumes and cover letters.
While for some students, the shift may come easy, others, unfortunately, face a downward spiral in their academic performance as they move from school to university. Here’s a lowdown on the preparation you need to make for a smooth changeover to a higher education institution
Please select Course
--None--
of UPES.
UPES Admission Enquiry
The most important benefit of sports is reducing stress levels. Regular exercise is a natural way to feel relaxed, energetic and let go of stress. A lower amount of stress will thereby manage high blood sugar levels and hypertension.
Subscribe
All sorts of physical activity help individuals burn calories. Sports help control your weight and reduces the risk of obesity and other related diseases.
Reduce stress:
Course Type
Select Course
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
10 great things about going to a university
Wishing everyone a happy #nationalsportsday !
the
UPES Editorial Team
Video resume: Your new-age tool to ace interviews
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Regular physical activity is very important to maintain heart health. Sports will reduce the amount of harmful cholesterol and fats in the blood which thereby helps in managing high blood pressure.
Mansha Dhingra
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
*
In an increasingly polarized world, there is a growing need for value education and academicians have an important role to play in the character-building of their students
Reduce the risk of heart diseases:
privacy policy
Leadership skills:
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
Reduce risk of obesity:
national sports day 2019
Published 29/08/2019