Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
The new rules explicated by the government of India will open new avenues for Indian law firms to forge new alliances with foreign law firms to scale up their global operations. Currently, many Indian law firms have their own collaboration with foreign law firms in different countries to cater the legal and business needs of their clients. New rules will significantly benefit Indian law firms who are ready to embrace the new changes and make required adjustments to their strategic alliance with global partners and will emerge as big winners.
Please enter email address
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
Finally, the Indian legal fraternity stands to gain from this move and not lose out. It is of the utmost importance that the government works on evaluating and revamping the state of affairs in the legal sector in order to eliminate the unfair constraints, which, if not worked upon, will undoubtedly place fetters on the healthy development of our nation.
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
The decision to allow foreign law firms to practice in India will have a significant impact on the legal education sector. It will create numerous opportunities for academic collaborations and partnerships between Indian law schools and international firms. This will enable Indian law students to work with international attorneys and gain exposure to the global legal landscape. This move not only opens better career prospects for many but also offers an avenue for quick repayment of educational loans. The influx of international guest lecturers, professors of practice, and engaging panel discussions with A-listers in the legal industry will undoubtedly enrich the curriculum at Indian law schools. Not only this, but we may also see a host of changes in the law school curriculum to suit the industry’s needs, including novel electives and specialisations. Additionally, this development is expected to revive the placement scene in law colleges and push Indian Big Law to attract the best talent straight out of law schools, directly benefitting Indian law students. Overall, this move is expected to have a positive impact on the legal education sector in India, enabling greater collaboration and fostering a new era of learning and professional growth for law students.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Global opportunities for Indian lawyers
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
Dr. Abhishek Sinha
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
Access to the best practices of international law firms
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
The new change will also alter the professional working environment currently prevalent in the country. International law firms will bring with them more professionalism and Western work culture. Most of the Indian law firms will get the option of collaborating with foreign firms or even get the chance to merge with Indian divisions of foreign law firms.
The writer is Dr. Abhishek Sinha, Dean, UPES School of Law
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Reforms in the legal education and judicial system
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
Benefits for students
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
Though the recent BCI notification and the press release don’t directly relate to the legal education sector or the Indian law students. However, for the overall growth of the Indian legal education sector and to provide global exposure to Indian law students; foreign law firms and lawyers intending to set up shops in India, should be mandated to provide, some: (a) teaching hours at Indian law schools, and (b) mandatory internships. Such considerations by the BCI would have far-reaching positive impacts on Indian law students and the entire legal education sphere in India. This should also be mandated for Indian law firms and lawyers.
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
Multi-jurisdictional know-how and technical expertise
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
This opportunity to work closely with foreign lawyers will allow Indian lawyers and law students to enhance their legal and professional skills to the next level. Currently, corporate, and transactional lawyers are one of the highest-paid segments of the legal profession. The entry of foreign law firms and lawyers could see further a jump in the pay scales of corporate and transactional lawyers. However, this might pose a challenge for Indian law firms as they can find it difficult to retain the top talent in this segment.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Unlike earlier, Indian law students and graduates will now have the freedom to access new opportunities offered by foreign firms in India or in their country of origin. In fact, foreign law firms have already started hiring fresh law graduates from law colleges across the country. One of the many advantages of working with international law firms is the financial support. International companies do not shy away from paying their employees well and usually, the monetary benefits are much higher than the average offered by Indian law firms. The entrance of international law firms also directly expands the landscape available for Indian lawyers. Some of the other benefits include:
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis. A few years back (2018 to be precise), the BCI placed on record with the Supreme Court of India, that it was not in favour of allowing foreign law firms to open branch offices in India. However, in the recent notification of the BCI (13 March 2023), it has relaxed its position to some extent by allowing foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law and diverse international law and international arbitration matters in India. The intent is to make India a hub of International Commercial Arbitration. Also, BCI in its press release of 19 March 2023, has clarified that this change in position is because of the desire articulated by the Supreme Court of India in the matter of BCI vs. AK Balaji (2018), that BCI or the Government of India should frame rules about regulation of foreign lawyers and foreign law firms. Giving comfort to the Indian lawyers, BCI has categorically stated that the rules allowing foreign lawyers entry into India would function in a very restricted sphere and this decision is not going to impact the advocates practicing in India.
Transfer of knowledge
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Specialisation in international corporate law
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Improved quality of service
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Published 25/09/2023
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Students will get international exposure and will be able to work with foreign lawyers on a variety of matters covered under practices opened to foreign lawyers. Accordingly, lawyers predominantly working in the areas of investment transactions and arbitration matters would also get significant exposure to work directly in tandem with foreign lawyers.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Last Name