Advances in information technology, robotics and artificial intelligence are disrupting business models worldwide and triggering macro-economic shifts.
Diana George
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
Law
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
Why Future Engineers Must Have Global Competencies
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Download Brochure
Please enter email address
Inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swachh Bharat Mission, Dr. Bhawna Lamba and her team of researchers are working for a spotless, sparkling India, through their novel integrated wastewater plant that uses microalgae to purify sewage water.
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Mansha Dhingra
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
View all
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
16/09/2024
Explore popular career options with a geochemistry degree
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
14/09/2024
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
School of Advanced Engineering
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Design
Please Select Course Type
Latest Articles
Featured Posts
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
Dr. Annapurna Boruah
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Business
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Geoscience Education: Navigating the Route to Net Zero Emission and Bright Career Horizons
26/07/2024
View less
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
Please enter mobile number
Health Sciences & Technology
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
Showing items
-- None --
The great aim of education is not knowledge but action. This quote by British Polymath and philosopher Herbert Spencer continues to hold relevance even today in the field of education, as it underscores the idea that the goal of education goes beyond accumulating knowledge.
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Blogs
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Transforming India’s Education Landscape: Challenges, Initiatives and Future Roadmap
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Dr. Rahul Kumar
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Dr. Harshit Shukla
24/01/2025
Email Address
Geochemistry is a fascinating field that studies chemistry of earth and combines the principles of two disciplines—chemistry and geology.
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Advanced Engineering
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
Please select Course
UPES researcher leads first-of-its-kind wastewater reclamation project in India
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, decoding its history, and contributing to crucial areas like natural resource management, environmental protection, and hazard assessment, geology stands as one of the most captivating and rewarding career choices.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
Computer Science
privacy policy
Liberal Studies
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?