5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
It’s a method that focuses on learning through participation in moderated discussions. It simply replaces the classic ‘teacher construct’ with a ‘moderator’. The formal and traditional teaching methods assume that students/participants lack information on a particular topic, however, participatory learning teaching urges the learners to apply common sense and logical reasoning. The conclusion and learnings from such discussion, which is moderated by an expert in that area of law, are retained by the participants for a longer time. This effect itself is worth applauding.
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
Participatory learning should not be confused with “clinical legal education”. The latter is an experiential learning process, which promotes the growth of personal skills and values, while also promoting social justice. It can be one of the tools in the participatory learning technique which caters to developing softer skills and sensitizing the participants on issues surrounding social justice and ethics. The importance of clinical legal education cannot be ignored. The former Chief Justice of India, Justice Y.V. Chandrachud, and Professor Madhava Menon, have spoken on several occasions, emphasising the importance of clinical legal education, and how it helps budding lawyers.
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
Almost 40 years back, Andrew Patter identified two distinct educational objectives, namely, (i) subject-matter objectives (i.e., areas of law, the students should understand), and (b) the learning objectives (i.e., the manner of learning). The participatory learning method is one of the easiest ways to minimise the gap between theoretical knowledge and practical applicability. Merely teaching legal doctrines along with the relevant and important precedents is not adequate in today’s highly competitive and demanding work environment.
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Participatory method of teaching and learning in legal education, places more importance on experiences, case studies, deal analysis, real-time assignments, moderated discussions and participation from all those who are a part of the session, whether a classroom session or online. There are various participatory techniques. Generally, it actively involves and motivates learners through discussions, logical reasonings, experiences of the moderator, market practice, market trends and the law itself. Problem-solving through real-time assignments, real-life deal/case examples and hypothetical situations surrounding the topic being discussed, make learning new, enjoyable and fun. The idea is not to do away with formal teaching completely. However, a balance needs to be achieved between both methods of teaching. A mixture of both approaches will be the answer to the question: What is the best possible method for imparting legal education?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
If participation in the session increases the engagement with the students and promotes active learning, more than half of the job is completed. However, like all other techniques and teaching methods, the participatory learning technique also has certain challenges. It can sometimes be a little alienating, intimidating and stressful for some participants, who are unable to contribute to the discussions. This can sometimes be a little tricky to address. The moderator has to be mindful of this aspect and must implement an all-inclusive approach toward the participants.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
In a world of fluid geographies and virtual learning, legal education in India continues to veer towards traditional teaching methodologies teacher-centred themes, monologues, lecture series and theoretical approaches. With the Digital India initiative picking up in a big way and the judiciary taking proactive steps to go completely online — like during the pandemic — a digital overhaul of legal education is critical, to the changing times.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Published 08/08/2023
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Dr. Abhishek Sinha
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Even though participatory learning has a flavour of the ‘Socratic Approach’, it is far away from being archaic.
26/07/2024
Last Name
The writer is Dr. Abhishek Sinha, Dean, UPES School of Law
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Participatory Learning, A Game-Changer for Legal Education in India?
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
It’s time we acknowledge and appreciate the fact that the teaching method itself needs an overhaul, especially in the legal education sector.  We have to not only acknowledge but also adopt new ways of imparting legal education, whether to law students or young legal professionals. In this scenario, it’s important to understand that ‘new ways’ should not be construed as mundane webinars or online courses, which have recently become very popular, not by choice but by compulsion.
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
We must explore the construct of “participatory learning” in the legal education sphere. This is no longer considered an experimental tool/method of imparting knowledge. Much has been written, researched and implemented when it comes to the concept of participatory learning. It’s not a new concept vis-à-vis legal education in certain developed countries like US and UK. However, in India, the concept is relatively new. But this should not be an impediment in exploring this method for teaching law/conducting CLEs.
The traditional approach is not only employed by several law colleges and diploma programs but is also deployed in the process of delivering continued legal education (CLE) for qualified lawyers (whether in law firms/legal department of corporates). The Ministry of Law & Justice and the Bar Council of India have time and again acknowledged the importance and need for a mandatory CLE for Indian advocates. Several reports have been prepared, however, as on date it’s not a mandatory requirement. In contrast, countries like the US, UK, Canada, Germany, France and Italy have mandatory CLE credit requirements for all legal professionals. Despite this issue being very close to my heart, it’s not really the focal point here.
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022