Diana George
+91
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Best Buddy’s Restro café is on its way to Mussoorie. The café is famed for sumptuous Asian cuisines, Indian street food and bakery stuff. Artistic ambience, tasty food and impeccable service, Best Buddy’s Restro is by far the best café in town. This café should be on your bucket list when you next visit Dehradun.
Course Type
6. Rising Dough
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
Hues of Holi @UPES
*
Source: media-cdn.tripadvisor.com
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Simple décor, wide spread menu, and reasonable price; Rising Dough is a renowned café and bakery at Dehradun. Moreover, whether it is grabbing quick munchies or just a cup of cappuccino and soothing music, this is an exciting cafe to stop by for a while.
Trending Post
4. Kalsang, Ama Café
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Tags
Source: www.google.com
Submit
Select Course
Source: b.zmtcdn.com
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
Please Select Course Type
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
This amazing cozy café offers everything from excellent Italian food, hot coffee to beautiful view and one of its kind décor. Good music, food and a calm place makes it as one of the best cafes in Dehradun.
2. Café Marigold
A subscriber email already exists.
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Source: www.tripoto.com
With calm ambience, brick-designed interior, sprawling outdoor seating and affordable food menu, this popular café in Dehradun is a must to visit. All day breakfast and finger licking food, Café Marigold is an ideal place to sit back, relax, unwind and spend some time with your friends and family.
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Published 29/05/2019
This café is situated inside a posh bunglow near Race Course. Café Razzmatazz offers a wide range of coffees, shakes, soups, pastas, salads and sandwiches. But more than the food, the interior, colour combinations, garden seating arrangement and serene surrounding away from the din of the city, makes this cafe, one of the popular hangout places for people.
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
Please enter mobile number
Wonderful ambience and exotic menu, these cafes should be in your bucket list the next time you visit Dehradun. Apart from these cafes, explore these tourist places in Dehradun.
If you are fond of Chinese, Thai and continental delicacies, fast foods, baked stuff and plenty of beverages Kalsang, Ama café is one of the best places to visit. Soothing music and great hospitality Kalsang AMA is one of the most renowned and oldest cafes in Dehradun.
-- None --
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand. Also, the capital city of Uttarakhand is endowed with fascinating tourist attractions like streams, heritage monuments, museums and temples. Apart from this, what excites the young crowd, or the tourists are the cafes in Dehradun. Cafes are a good place to relax, chill and hang out with your friends or family. Some cafes in Dehradun offer cozy and serene spaces to spend a perfect evening. Be it hot-piping delicious pizza, momos or a chocolaty Oreo shake, these best cafes in Dehradun are paradise for all foodies.
--None--
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
Dehradun is also known for its exquisite bakeries and one cannot miss Eddie’s Patisserie. This café and bakery is one of the most buzzing and famous cafes in Dehradun well-known for its delicious cakes, pastries, brownies and other baked items. Vibrant, cozy and spacious outdoor sitting area, chilling out at Eddie’s Patisserie is a perfect café which can help you relax and chill.
cafes in dehradun
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
UPES Editorial Team
3. Raamatazz Cafe
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
7. Eddie’s Coffee shops and bakery
These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
1. Café de Piccolo
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Source: scontent-sea1-1.cdninstagram.com
Please select Course
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
UPES Admission Enquiry
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
5. Best Buddy’s Restro Café
restaurant in dehradun
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
privacy policy
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Last Name