UPES fA
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
the importance of learning from the practitioners. “It is not just good for the students; it also gives us practitioners an opportunity to interact with the new generation and see how they think,” he emphasises.
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
Vineet Singhal
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Among the recently appointed PoPs at UPES are distinguished names such as
Published 19/01/2023
With the goal of bringing real-world experience and market practice in the classroom, UPES School of Law has taken another step of appointing Professors of Practice (PoPs). This is in accordance with the recently released guidelines by University Grants Commission (UGC) under which higher education institutions can hire industry experts from various sectors through a new category of positions called Professor of Practice.
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Talking about how PoPs can help in providing holistic education to students through their experience, Abhishek Sinha, Associate Dean, UPES School of Law, says, “At UPES School of Law, one of the important elements is to focus on clinical legal education, which involves learning the practical skills of research, court craft, advocacy, counselling skills, negotiations, and legal drafting skills. Understanding the market practice and the commercials around the transaction differentiates a regular lawyer from a sought after lawyer. The Bar Council of India and UGC recognise the involvement of practising advocates and professionals in the teaching and learning process of law schools. Towards this end, UPES School of Law has a policy on the appointment of PoPs, which essentially is an engagement of senior practising advocates and eminent legal professionals. This is in line with international best practices followed by several top foreign universities and law schools.”
Course Type
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
PoPs are renowned professionals and experts in their domain, with at least 15 years of service or experience, preferably at a senior level. A formal academic degree, like PhD, is not considered essential for this position since they have exemplary professional practice in lieu. These experts are also exempted from the requirement of publications and other eligibility criteria stipulated for the recruitment of faculty members at the ‘professor’ level. They provide students with valuable practical training, necessary to thrive in the real world.
Photo Credit: Pexels
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
explains Aakanksha Joshi.
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
says, “When I became a lawyer, I realised that what you learn in law school is the law as it was framed. However, the way it is implemented and applied in real life is different from what we are taught in law schools. While you may have the knowledge that you get from the books, it is important to get the real-life practice that probably comes with a few years of experience. That is why, having professionals, who represent a particular industry come, and share their experiences is essential.”
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
Lauding UPES for taking the lead in the appointment of PoPs,
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
PoPs will teach regular semester courses (entire course) and their sessions are not just ad hoc or one-off master classes. This will immensely help students to understand the practical nuances and applicability of laws. It will be a perfect blend of practical knowledge and theoretical learning.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Senior partners of top Indian law firms, Directors/General Counsels/India Head (Legal) of top MNCs and Indian Corporates, Retired Supreme Court (SC) /High Court (HC) Judges, top legal practitioners practising at HC/SC will be considered for the position.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Mr. Sajit Suvarna, Deputy Managing Partner, DSK Legal; Mr. Vineet Shingal, Partner, Khaitan & Co; Yoghesh Bhattarai, Senior Partner, Trilegal; and Aakanksha Joshi, Partner, Economic Laws Practice.
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Learn from the best
Please select Course
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
UPES Admission Enquiry
“It is important for students to be initiated into the world of law to prepare them for the realities of working in the legal industry, be it a law firm, in-house, or judicial services. The idea of PoPs teaching is to ensure that there is a seamless transition for students from college to the workplace, so students know what to expect and the professionals that they work for also get seasoned students,”
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Echoing her sentiments, Sajit Suvarna
Professors of Practice
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
They will be appointed for a period of one year and their tenure will be renewable with mutual consent.
reiterates
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
upes school of law
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name