Space planning, AutoCAD, lighting design, and knowledge of materials.
:
User Experience (UX) and Interaction Design
What are the specialization of design?
This field involves designing vehicles and mobility solutions, focusing on sustainability and ergonomics.
+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
Creative freedom, opportunities in film and gaming industries
When pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B. Des.), selecting the right specialization is crucial to carving out a rewarding career in the creative industry. Each specialization equips you with industry-specific skills and knowledge, preparing you for dynamic roles, whether in fashion studios, tech companies, or global automotive brands.
Here’s a list of market-relevant, placement-ready
Combines storytelling, visual arts, and technology for game creation, conceptualization, and character development.
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
Course Type
High demand in the rapidly growing gaming industry, opportunities to work on various platforms (PC, console, mobile), and the potential for freelance or indie game development.
Skills
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
4. Is B. Des. a good career option?
Opportunities to work in diverse industries, including technology and consumer goods, and innovation potential.
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
APPLY NOW.
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Conclusion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Trending Post
you can choose from for a brighter, creative career in design:
Starting salaries range from INR 4-7 LPA, with experienced animators and VFX artists earning up to INR 20-30 LPA.
Specialization
This specialization focuses on creating intuitive and user-friendly digital experiences for websites, apps, and software.
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
3. What is the highest package of B. Des.?
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Product Design involves creating items that are both functional and visually appealing, such as furniture, electronics, and appliances.
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Graphic Design is all about visual storytelling and conveying ideas through imagery, typography, and layouts.
Yes, it is a creative, innovative, challenging, and well-placed career option. Having the right skill set and degree can help you supercharge your design career.
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
specializations
Please Select Course Type
Creativity, programming (Unity, Unreal Engine), 3D modeling, storytelling, and knowledge of gaming trends.
Interior and Retail Space Design
FAQs
A subscriber email already exists.
1. Which specialization is best?
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator), typography, branding, and color theory.
Game Design
What do you mean by Bachelor of Design?
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
26/09/2024
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
Mobility and Vehicle Design
If you’re passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B. Des.) degree, the choice of specialization can shape your career path. From fashion to digital design, B. Des. programs offer diverse avenues to explore your creativity and skills. Keep reading further to know the B.Des specializations you can opt for an enriched career.
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Life as a B.Des student is a whirlwind of creativity, learning, and personal growth. It’s a journey that challenges you to think differently, push boundaries, and constantly innovate. Choosing the right specialization based on your interests, goals, and career choice can go a long way in helping you land your dream job. So, if you’re thinking the path of design, dive in with enthusiasm and be prepared for an adventure that will shape not just your career, but also your way of seeing the world.
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
This specialization focuses on designing functional and aesthetically pleasing spaces, covering residential, commercial, and public areas.
Entry-level salaries start around INR 3-5 LPA, with senior designers earning between INR 10-15 LPA or more.
The entry-level salary ranges from 3-6 lacs per annum. After a good amount of experience, one can earn 12 lacs per annum and above.
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
Graphic and Communication Design
Wireframing, prototyping, user research, and UX design tools (Figma, Sketch).
--None--
Entry-level salaries range from INR 4-6 LPA, with potential growth up to INR 12-20 LPA for senior roles.
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
3D modeling, animation software (Maya, Blender), storyboarding, and visual storytelling.
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
Published 13/11/2024
Opportunities in various industries such as marketing, advertising, and publishing, with the potential for freelance work.
2. What Design is most demand?
Animation & VFX
Starting salaries are around INR 5-7 LPA, with senior roles reaching INR 20-30 LPA.
High demand across industries, potential for remote work, and opportunities to improve everyday digital experiences.
05/08/2024
This field covers the creation of animations and visual effects for films, games, and digital media.
Automotive design, concept sketching, sustainability principles, and CAD software.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Salary
Email Address
Creative flexibility, direct client interaction, and the potential for self-employment or running your firm.
Benefits
Product Design
Overview
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
3D modeling, CAD software, user-centered design, and problem-solving.
Related Articles
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B. Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is! There are multiple options, specializations, and more within the larger purview of B. Des. In the huge galaxy of stars, it’s important to know which specializations suit your interest best, what can you do with them, and how to ace your education.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
"B. Des." is a short form for Bachelor of Design, an undergraduate degree that focuses on a variety of design-related subjects. Specializations in fashion design, graphic design, industrial design, interior design, and other fields are available in this three- to four-year curriculum.
Opportunities in the automotive industry, chances to work on innovative transportation solutions, and potential for global placements.
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
Each specialization caters to a particular industry, skill set, and personal interest. Depending on your strengths and interests, you can decide for yourself which specialization will suit you the best. Remember, there is a market for all. If you love what you do, you’ll flourish everywhere.
Starting salaries are around INR 3-5 LPA, with experienced designers earning up to INR 15-20 LPA.
Entry-level positions typically start around INR 4-6 LPA, while experienced game designers can earn up to INR 15-25 LPA or more
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Entry-level roles typically pay INR 4-6 LPA, while senior UX designers can earn INR 15-25 LPA or more.
Last Name
There is a market demand for all specializations. Graphic design is one of the most sought-after specializations, with good job prospects and salary.