5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
2. Listening is a fine art:
I won Best Speaker at 8th UPES Intra- Parliamentary Debate Competition, 2019-20 organised by DEBSOC, School of Law, UPES.
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
. The speakers from the government side are Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Government Whip. Similarly, the speakers from the Opposition side are Leader of Opposition, Deputy Leader of Opposition and the Opposition Whip.
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Mostly, freshers tend to have a preconceived notion that parliamentary debates are all about making your point aggressively, so that it instills some kind of fear in mind of the opposition. Well! That is a myth. The underlying skill of debating, which one needs to work on, is listening to what the other side is saying. When you listen, then you understand the thought process of the other side and instead of beating around the bush you can directly attack the very foundation on which the argument rests.
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Nishu Chawat
03/01/2025
Trending Post
I, along with my team members Shruti Mandhotra and Pulkit Pandey, participated in various Asian Parliamentary Debates and won a few prizes and the best speaker titles as well. Notable amongst them are the Sh GK Chatrath Memorial UILS Annual Parliamentary Debate Competition, 2018; Annual Parliamentary Debate Competition, 2017, TRIVIUM VIII, PEC, Chandigarh; 7th Intra Parliamentary Debate Competition 2019-2020, etc.
DEBSOC
organises competitions such as National Parliamentary Debate, Intra-Parliamentary Debate, Shabd-Shashtra Conventional Hindi Debate, Novice Intra-Parliamentary Debate, Debating Premier League, etc. Each event witnesses around 30-40 teams giving a tough competition to each other to win the coveted trophies. These are great opportunities for students and they should make most out of them to hone their skills.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
: It is not possible that things always pan out the way you hope them to. It is important to innovate while playing your part and help a teammate in need. For instance, if any point is unrebutted before your speech, regardless of the fact that you are the last speaker, you need to step up and answer it in a narrative that favors you. All the six speeches are evaluated differently. Hence, it becomes essential to focus on the common, yet differentiated roles, to emerge victorious.
Mobile Number
This skill comes with practice and a lot of reading about current happenings. As a parliamentary debate is not affixed to a particular subject matter, you need acquire knowledge through reading form your own perspective about current world affairs.  This process will always help you have an edge against your counterpart in any debate.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Please Select Course Type
4. Teamwork and innovation
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Opposition’
1. Defining or un-defining the motion, as the case may be:
26/07/2024
Last Name
he Debating Society (DEBSOC), UPES School of Law, has played a vital role in nurturing the students’ debating acumen by providing a host of opportunities to debate and learn
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
Published 08/09/2020
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
and the other team speaks averse, known as ‘the
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Parliamentary Debate
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
The Government side is at liberty to mold the motion and define it in a manner as they deem it fit, while respecting the fact that they do not get to restrict the ambit of the debate to truism, tautology, etc., making it difficult for the other team to debate. Hence, the proposition side needs to define the motion with precision and perfection in order to sway and restrict the debate in their favour because not providing the house with a definition gives the opposition an upper hand automatically as it is assumed that the motion derives its meaning from common prudence. On the other hand, the opposition side needs to scrutinize the definition word for word, point out the grey areas and debate accordingly. This first instance of debate can either make or break the debate for either of the teams and hence it is vital for both to be alert and cautious while approaching this stage.
The writer is Nishu Chawat, student, BBA LLB, Corporate Law, UPES School of Law, with inputs from Shruti Mandhotra and Pulkit Pandey, students of BBA LLB, Corporate Law, UPES School of Law
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
The Debating Society (DEBSOC), UPES School of Law,
has played a vital role in nurturing the students’ debating acumen by providing a host of opportunities to debate and learn. Every year,
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
I strongly feel that every law student must participate in debates. Here are my tried and tested mantras to ensure that students deliver nothing but the best:
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The life of a law student revolves around formal exercises such as Moot courts, Trial Advocacy, Research Paper Presentations, etc. However, Asian Parliamentary Debates, slightly informal in nature, are events of their own kind. Parliamentary debates are a great platform for law students to ingrain confidence and finesse in expression.
‘the Government’
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
An Asian Parliamentary Debate follows a simple 3*3 format. There are two teams comprising three members each, one team speaking in favour of the motion, known as
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
upes school of law
3. Thinking like a critique:
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022