Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai
Eligibility typically includes completion of 10+2 with a minimum percentage as specified by the institution. Some courses may have additional requirements or entrance exams.
Human resources, marketing, management, corporate communication.
Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
Shiv Nadar University, Uttar Pradesh
20/09/2024
4. Scope
Psychology
Literature
+91
Adaptability:
Public Service:
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
3. Eligibility
First Name
A Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Liberal Arts offers learners a broad-based education in subjects like literature, history, political science, sociology, economics, psychology, and philosophy. This program nurtures critical thinking, creativity in students, and offers versatile career opportunities in fields like education, journalism, public relations, and social work. BA Liberal Arts are ideal for students seeking a well-rounded, adaptable, and intellectually stimulating undergraduate experience.
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
No, a Liberal Arts degree won't limit your career options, it will broaden them! Here's why:
Published 06/07/2024
Research and Development:
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Consultation with Professionals
2. Subjects
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Includes core courses in social sciences, research methodology, and interdisciplinary electives.
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
As the name suggests, Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Liberal Arts blends natural sciences with humanities and social sciences. This program like all liberal arts program develops critical thinking and problem-solving skills, but what separates it from the rest of the courses is the opportunity to work in an environmental consultancy, education, and healthcare, while offering a holistic and well-rounded educational experience.
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning. Unlike traditional programs that focus on a single discipline, liberal arts courses encompass various subjects, fostering critical thinking, creativity, and a well-rounded education. In this article, we'll explore the top liberal arts courses in India, including subjects, syllabus, scope, eligibility, colleges, fees, and industry demand.
What is a Liberal Arts Degree?
1. Syllabus
Education:
"seven liberal arts"
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Liberal Arts graduates pursue successful careers in fields like business, law, education, writing, and even tech!
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Grammar (language study)
Journalism, public relations, content creation, social media management.
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Liberal Arts
Conclusion
Liberal arts graduates can pursue higher education in specialized fields like law, business administration, public policy, and international relations, enhancing their career prospects.
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Jindal School of Liberal Arts and Humanities, Haryana
Manipal University, Karnataka
Biology
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Utilize resources like college websites, educational forums, and career counseling services to gather information about different programs.
You'll be prepared to learn and adapt in a fast-changing job market.
8. How do I choose the right liberal arts course?
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Geometry
Completion of 10+2 with a science background and a minimum percentage as specified by the institution.
Top colleges include Ashoka University, FLAME University, Symbiosis School for Liberal Arts, Jindal School of Liberal Arts and Humanities, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, and Christ University.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Ranges from INR 50,000 to INR 3,00,000 per annum, depending on the institution.
Bachelor of Social Sciences
Corporate Sector:
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Christ University, Bangalore
Physics
Scope and Industry Demand
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Economics
Liberal arts education emphasizes a broad-based curriculum that includes humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and more.
Self-Assessment
Submit
Ambedkar University, Delhi
Select Course
Combines natural sciences with humanities and social sciences, offering a holistic education.
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
A Bachelor of Social Sciences offers education in subjects like anthropology, sociology, political science, and economics. For students who want to make careers in research, policy analysis, public administration, and international organizations, Bachelor of Social Sciences is an ideal liberal arts course that tackles societal challenges.
Sociology
Media and Communication:
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
Top Liberal Arts Courses in India
Delhi University, Delhi
Fees range from INR 50,000 to INR 8,00,000 per annum, depending on the institution and program.
By
17/10/2024
2. Syllabus
Liberal arts graduates are known for their versatility and ability to adapt to various roles and industries, making them valuable assets in today's dynamic job market.
the
Career opportunities in research, policy analysis, public administration, and international organizations.
5. Fees
The syllabus varies by institution but generally includes foundational courses in humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences, followed by specialized electives.
5.Fees
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top Colleges for Admissions in Liberal Arts Studies
Please Select Course Type
Identify your interests, strengths, and career goals. Liberal arts offer diverse subjects, so choose a program that aligns with your aspirations.
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
FAQs
7. How much do liberal arts courses cost in India?
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
5. Will a Liberal Arts degree limit my career options?
Research roles in think tanks, NGOs, and academic institutions.
Liberal arts education in India offers a unique and enriching learning experience, preparing students for diverse career opportunities. By understanding the different courses, their scope, and industry demand, you can make an informed decision and embark on a fulfilling educational journey.
Graduates can pursue careers in education, journalism, public relations, social work, and more.
6. Which are the top colleges for liberal arts in India?
13/08/2024
Ranges from INR 2,00,000 to INR 8,00,000 per annum, depending on the institution.
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
were considered the foundation of a well-rounded education. These include:
Geography
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
Logic
26/07/2024
Last Name
4. What are the 7 liberal arts?
Mathematics
4.Course Scope
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
Consider your interests, strengths, and career goals. Research different programs, consult with professionals, and assess which course aligns best with your aspirations.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
Strong Skills:
3.Eligibility
Seek advice from current students, alumni, and professionals in the field to gain insights into various liberal arts programs and career paths.
--None--
Research and Resources
Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Liberal Arts
Policy analysis, public administration, social work.
Versatility and Adaptability
UPES Editorial Team
History
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Environmental Science
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Arithmetic
Please enter last name
Career Opportunities
Anthropology
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
The difference between "arts" and "liberal arts" lies in their scope and focus. "Arts" typically refers to creative disciplines like painting, music, and theatre. "Liberal arts," however, include a range of subjects, including humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and mathematics. Liberal arts education focuses to provide individuals with diverse knowledge and critical thinking skills.
1. What is difference between arts and liberal arts?
Ashoka University, Haryana
1. Subjects
FLAME University, Pune
Diverse Paths:
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
3. What is the scope of liberal arts education in India?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Email Address
Discover the top liberal arts courses in India, covering essential details on the courses subjects, and industry demand. Explore versatile career opportunities and understand how to choose the right program for your aspirations. This comprehensive guide will help you navigate the diverse world of liberal arts education and make informed decisions for your undergraduate degree.
Astronomy
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Political Science
2. What are the eligibility criteria for liberal arts courses in India?
How to Choose the Right Liberal Arts Course
Music
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Teaching, academic administration, educational consultancy.
Opportunities in research, environmental consultancy, education, and healthcare sectors.
Rhetoric (communication)
UPES Admission Enquiry
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Ranges from INR 2,50,000 to INR 7,00,000 per annum, depending on the institution.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Symbiosis School for Liberal Arts, Pune
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Liberal arts education offers versatile career opportunities in education, media, public service, corporate sectors, and more. Graduates can also pursue higher education in specialized fields.
A Liberal Arts degree itself isn't limited to just 7 subjects, the traditional
Computer Science
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Philosophy
Completion of 10+2 with a minimum percentage as specified by the institution.
It teaches you valuable skills like communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving, sought after by employers across industries.
Higher Education
The flexibility and adaptability of a liberal arts education also allows graduates to pivot between different roles and industries throughout their careers