Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
Says Rahul Nainwal, Director-CSR, UPES, “It’s heartening to see how they have transformed and are now leading fulfilling lives. The impact of this initiative is evident in the success stories of these students, who have overcome significant barriers and are now contributing to society. This initiative not only provides access to education but also empowers young minds to dream big and achieve their goals, regardless of their background.”
First Name
For most of these kids it is about securing a better life for themselves and their loved ones.
Akash Pal, a 2nd-year student of B.Tech. Automotive Design Engineering, has won several state-level painting competitions and is also a member of the basketball team. He finds the environment at the university liberating as it gives him free access to the labs which had restricted entry in school. His mother is an artisan who makes cushions and quilted blankets under Project Purkal. He aspires for a well-paying job so that his mother does not have to toil to make two ends meet.
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Scholarships
Course Type
Please enter email address
Astha Rana is a 3rd-year student of B.Com. (Hons) in Banking, Management and Insurance. Her dad is an electrician, while her mother runs a shop that sells cosmetics and bangles in Gajiyawala Village in Sahaspur Block of Dehradun, besides supplementing the family income through her tailoring work. After she starts working, she wants to take her mother for a vacation as she is fond of travelling.
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
Aayushi Verma, who studied BBA (Core) at UPES School of Business, is now Head Coach at Leverage Edu in Noida. In 2016, after her father had a paralytic attack, life took a new turn for Aayushi Verma.
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
UPES’ association with PYDS began in 2018 under Project Protsaahan, and to date, 15 students have benefitted from the initiative. These students belong to families with meagre means. Their will to succeed despite their impoverished circumstances has made them an inspiration not just for their families but for the community at large.
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
“There was hardly any hope and I could barely see any light coming through. But as we say, good things happen when we least expect it. The same happened with me when I got a chance to study at UPES,” recounts Aayushi Verma. After detailed applications, written assessments, followed by a Group Discussion and Personal Interview (GDPI), Aayushi got the confirmation of a 100% scholarship. The scholarship covered hostel fees, uniform, books, industrial visits and other expenses.
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
They are all students who were nurtured in their early years by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS), a non-profit in Dehradun, and are now receiving full scholarships from UPES to continue their higher education journey.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Priyanka Bhatt, who did her B.Tech. in Electronics and Communication Engineering (2018-2022) at UPES, is today working as Associate Engineer with Silicon Labs in Hyderabad. “I joined this company in June 2022, and I have had a good experience so far since it is related to my core domain. Later on, I might think of pursuing M.Tech.,” she says.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
The project takes care of the entire fees of two students, provides stipend during internships, a faculty to mentor and monitor academic and co-curricular progress, and a member from the Career Services team to assist in internships and placements.
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
Protsaahan was institutionalised in 2019 and now supports two PYDS students every year. The courses for which support is available include all programs of B.Tech., Integrated LLB, BBA and B.Des. Under the project, UPES bears all costs, including academic and tuition fee, hostel charges, uniforms, laptops, one-time charges as well as the refundable security, for the entire duration of the course. The annual bursary under this project is ₹ 10-15 lakh per PYDS candidate. This includes a stipend of ₹ 20,000 to be given to the candidate during his industry internship as per the curriculum.
-- None --
The shadows of their past have not dimmed their spark. They are banking on education to give them an egress from hardships. They may have had humble beginnings, but their aspirations are sky high. And UPES, upholding its cherished values of inclusion, equity and diversity, is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that they realise their dreams.
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Lucky Singh, a native of Haridwar who joined B.Tech. CSE this year, is determined to meet the diverse group of learners on campus and enhance his social skills. His father, a farmer, is responsible for the family of six, including his two sisters, mother and grandmother. He wants to work towards a career in cyber security, besides learning to play the guitar.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Student beneficiaries of Purkal Youth Development Society who are now receiving full scholarships at UPES
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
Amisha Chauhan, who is in the 4th year of BA LLB, is specialising in Energy Laws. She envisions her future as a corporate lawyer or a civil servant and wants to ensure a “stable life” for her sisters and her mother.
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Anshit Mamgain’s story is no different. He joined UPES with the dreams of “expanding his horizons”. His father, a schoolteacher, wanted him to join the defence forces, but he could not make the cut due to medical issues. And it was just as well, because he had dreams of becoming a coder. He now wants to ensure a secure future for his grandmother, mother and two younger sisters.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
Anchal Tailwal is a 2nd-year student, pursuing B.Tech. CSE with specialisation in DevSecOps. She is a member of several student chapters, including the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). She likes to play basketball and participate in personality development workshops in her free time. Her family owns a groceries shop.
privacy policy
Published 20/02/2023
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name