UAV Pilot:
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
Today, satellites play an important role in ensuring our lives run smoother and better. They are used for GPS navigation, long-distance communications, to predict the weather, monitor global temperatures, and much more. And space exploration in India has been revived with successful launches of Mangalayan and Chandrayan. As graduates of aerospace engineering, you can chart a successful and interesting career as part of research teams in both these areas.
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
In India, the aerospace and defence market is on a high-growth trajectory. The increase in domestic air travel and support from the government has significantly contributed to this growth. The aerospace industry has also experienced a renewed push with ISRO’s space exploration endeavours. From government organisations to private and public airline services, aircraft manufacturing units, and even defence—aerospace engineers are in high demand.
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
M.Tech in Computational Fluid Dynamics as well as a PH.D.
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Avionics Engineers:
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Flight Technicians:
A full-time course in aerospace engineering in India teaches students to develop and design innovative technologies for aircraft and spacecraft, ways to make flights safer, more economical, fuel-efficient, and environment friendly, among other things. It’s an exciting time to be an aerospace engineer and chart a thrilling career, both in India and abroad. Take a look at the five job roles that an aerospace engineering can pursue.
If you like designing and building flying machines, then this is the right choice for you. As an aerospace engineer, your primary task will be to design, test, and develop aircrafts and spacecrafts. This job role entails working in large teams. Some of the government agencies that hire aerospace engineers are National Aeronautical Laboratory, Civil Aviation Department, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Defence Research and Development Laboratory. Apart from this, aerospace engineers are also needed in private airlines and the defence industry.
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
You can also choose to keep studying further and get a Master’s degree. UPES offers
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere
26/07/2024
Published 18/03/2021
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
By a Correspondent
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
Satellite and space research:
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
The university’s School of Engineering encompasses an array of courses in aerospace engineering with a variety of specializations to choose from. The courses have been co-developed by industry partners and help students gain specialized knowledge and practical skills. The multidisciplinary and holistic learning approach of UPES moulds students to be future-focused and ready to face the challenges of the world. With international internship opportunities and a high placement record, UPES is setting a new benchmark in the field of engineering studies in India.
Unmanned aerial vehicles are aircrafts without a pilot on board. It is operated remotely from an unmanned aircraft system comprising a ground-based controller and a system of communications between the pilot and the UAV. In the last few years, UAVs have become one of the most prominent emerging technology impacting almost all sectors. Today, the Indian government is using UAVs for assessing natural disasters, inspecting railways, detect illegal mining, etc.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
upes school of engineering
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
Aerospace engineering involves designing, developing, and maintaining aircrafts and spacecrafts. One of the toughest and exciting branches of engineering also involves testing missiles, rockets, and weapon systems. Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
An avionics engineer designs and programs electrical systems used on an aircraft, spacecraft, and satellites. They help provide support for all communication, navigation, and guidance systems, and also tests them to ensure they are working properly.
Aerospace engineers:
The main task of flight technicians is to maintain, construct, and regularly test the operating systems of the aircrafts. Flight technicians are in charge of making sure the aircrafts and the control systems are operating smoothly. Not just testing, technicians are also supposed to repair the equipment being used. They are needed by aerospace and aviation manufacturers and airlines, as well as in research teams.
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?