<
Favourite hangouts
These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
Diana George
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
Nostalgic about life at UPES, Shambhavi, from School of Design, says, “So much has been said and heard about the beautiful city – Dehradun is a gem! There is always peace and calmness. When I took admission at UPES, I wanted to explore the town and visit the local places. In my second year, I planned a trip to the ‘Queen of Hills’ Mussoorie with my friends. We travelled from one corner to another, from trying the famous cheese omelette and, to the soup stalls to delicious street food. The famous mall road, pleasant weather and the mystic clouds, our trip to Mussoorie was adventurous and something I will always remember.”
Trending Post
Last Name
+91
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
I got the Best-Actor award in the Annual Theatre Competition – Abhinay
Tags
-- None --
Clubs and activities
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
UPES Admission Enquiry
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
UPES alumni go down the memory lane to  recount their experiences of assignment submissions, canteen gupshup, endless pranks, fest razzmatazz and more. Read on to learn more about their fondest campus memories…
the
Please enter last name
UPES Editorial Team
The scenic environment and climatic conditions of Dehradun make it one of the most preferred locations for pursuing higher education.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Mansha Dhingra
I miss everything about the campus – walking down the corridors, the ‘Barons’, the greenery, the serenity, and the pleasant weather
One of the top institutions in Dehradun, UPES is known for its beautiful campus and serene surroundings, besides multidisciplinary learning, new-age specialisations, and holistic development of students.
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Memorable industrial visits
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
Tannu Priya from UPES School of Computer Science says, “For me, cafeteria was the ideal spot for gossiping about others while sipping hot tea or coffee. Unofficial meetings to decide an outing or a project, I loved my college canteens. We would plan our college fests and rehearse for our cultural programs in the canteens. My friends and I would spend more time in canteens than in classrooms.”
privacy policy
*
Road trips and street food
A subscriber email already exists.
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Ekta Kashyap
Ipshita Sharma from UPES School of Business says, “My most memorable memory is the industrial visit that the college organised. Generally, industrial visits are guided by teachers, and students are required to spend time at industries and organisations related to their specific field. The idea of embarking on an educational trip instils immense happiness and excitement amongst students. Though an educational trip, industrial visits are a much-needed break from the usual theory classes. I got a chance to engage in fun learning sessions. Endless chats, group photos, playing games while travelling, friendly conversations with faculty members, and bonfire on the last day. I miss it all!”
Published 16/06/2021
Rittika Dey, from UPES School of Law, says, “I would always look forward to the annual college festival, Uurja. We would gear up to make our college fest the best in town. From finding sponsors to planning the cultural events to endless trials, college fest is undoubtedly the best time of the year. The fest is all about the ‘fun factor’ as one can see full attendance in the college and enjoyable interactions between juniors and seniors. I miss everything about the campus – walking down the corridors, the ‘Barons’, the greenery, the serenity, and the pleasant weather.”
Says Avani, from UPES School of Computer Science, “Once, after our semester exams, I was looking for some adventure activity to rejuvenate myself. I, along with my friends, decided to visit the famous tourist spot in Dehradun –  Rishikesh. We took a hotel away from the hustle and bustle of the city. The view of the mystic hills from our guest house was amazing and mesmerizing. Later during the day, we decided to head towards river rafting in Ganga. A lot of emotions, ranging from fear, excitement, anxiety, and restlessness were floating at that point. We also decided to try cliff jumping at our mid-way point. Our trip to Rishikesh was adventurous, challenging, and relaxing all at the same time.”
Reliving her college days, Shristi Katiyar, from UPES School of Computer Science, says, “With a rigorous three-day long audition process, I joined the dramatics society of UPES – Paradigm Revived. The dramatics society helped me to learn, to make lasting friendships, and to experience people at their creative best. Being a member of the drama club has been by far the most rewarding part of my UPES journey. I also got the Best-Actor award in the Annual Theatre Competition – Abhinay. What added to the fun days were endless conversations with my classmates near Gandhi Chowk. We would sit there after our lectures and crack jokes and plan pranks.”
The famous mall road, pleasant weather and the mystic clouds, our trip to Mussoorie was adventurous and something I will always remember
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Rafting in Rishikesh
Fun and creativity galore