7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
All the moments of fun we spend with our friends in the hostel on a daily basis become beautiful memories once we look back at them – preparing for midnight birthdays surprises, watching late night movies and then those long conversations on random topics. Studies become way easier at the hostel – you have friends who can come to your rescue if you have any doubts. We used to have combined study sessions and I credit a lot of my high grades to the preparation support by my roomies.
The writer is Rusia Chetana Sushil Kumar, student, BBA, UPES School of Business
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
01/10/2024
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Now I don’t hesitate to grab my backpack and step out for a new adventure every now and then
Owing to my father’s transferable job as a civil engineer, I got the opportunity to travel and stay in various cities of India. However, I never went away from my parents for studies. So, deep down I nursed this desire to experience living on my own.
Every girl dreams of exploring the world and reaching out for the stars, but very few get the chance to do so. I feel blessed to have had my parents’ support to fly high and pursue my dream of higher education.
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
Sense of adaptability
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
Sense of responsibility
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Right from my day one, I was the driver of my own decisions. Waking up at 8.15 a.m. and still making it to the class at 8.30 surely sharpened my time management skills.
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Tags
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
I would eat cakes during the first week of every month and it would descend to counting pennies towards the end of the month. The pocket pinches could never let me buy my favourite denim, but it surely taught me to value money and to handle my finances.
One thing that every hostel student excels at is making Maggi! With numerous recipes learned over the years, I am a pro at it now. Mess is the most happening zone of our hostel – we spar over gulab jamuns and earning an extra one is a victory in itself.
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Published 23/07/2020
hostel experiences
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Living in the campus hostel has been an enriching experience for me. It has helped me to gain a new perspective towards life.
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
When my family came to drop me off for the first time, I was apprehensive – how would I be able to manage my life without them? However, time just flew and I have now completed two years as a hosteller. These have been the best years of my life as an independent girl.
Please enter mobile number
04/10/2024
The hostel has become my second home and I love every bit of being here. I have connected with people from different cultures. I have fostered bonds that will endure forever. My friends have accepted me with all my crazy habits and mood swings. My interactions with them have helped me to develop a sense of acceptance towards people from diverse backgrounds. The hostel wardens, Ms Manju Pant and Ms Poonam Dhillon, have cared for me beyond the call of their duty. I really cherish being part of the hostel committee where I learned to contribute to the world around me.
Rusia Chetana Sushil Kumar
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
hostel life
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
Making new connections
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
The hostel has become my second home and I love every bit of being here
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
I really looked forward to my hostel life when I enrolled into UPES for my BBA in 2018. As luck would have it, I got the kind of room I had envisioned for myself in the campus hostel.
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Please enter last name
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Every new day brought in new life lessons. All the things I depended on my mother for, I learnt to do on my own. It made me strong and self-reliant.
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
During these two years, living with people from diverse backgrounds helped me to enhance my people skills. I learned how to fight the odds, be resilient, maintain my calm and keep going, no matter what.
Memories for life
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
My first experience of travelling alone by train, packing my bags, going to the station, finding my seat, the continuous thumping of my heart, until I was home – it just made me fearless and now I don’t hesitate to grab my backpack on impulse and step out for a new adventure every now and then.
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
With a prayer in my heart and a wish on my lips, I look forward to going back to the campus and meeting all my hostel friends again.
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name