Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
The foremost medical institutes that are responsible for COVID-19 testing in the state are also being led by women. Scientist Sanghamitra Pati is heading the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), the key COVID-19 testing centre at Bhubaneswar, which is a regional institution of ICMR. Pati, together with her team scientist Jyotirmayee Turuk, is involved in aggressive testing to detect as many cases as possible.
Please enter email address
The Indian mythology and folklore are replete with accounts of legendary women, armed with swords, bows and arrows, fighting in wars and eventually emerging as winners. Women were warriors then; women are warriors now. Today, they are fighting an unseen enemy – a virus that has taken scores of lives across the world.  Their weapons have changed, too. But what hasn’t changed is their exceptional resilience and determination to win every battle with courage and conviction.
These achievements have put women front and centre in the medical arena. There is only one word to aptly describe these women of courage – inspiring.
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Sanghamitra Pati and Jyotirmayi Turuk
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Trending Post
Published 06/05/2020
On March 26, Mylabs Discovery, a molecular biology firm based in Pune, successfully delivered its first batch of the first-ever Made in India Coronavirus testing kit. This kit gave results in just two-and-a-half hours as compared to the imported ones, which take six-seven hours for the same. Moreover, the Mylabs testing kit was priced at INR 1,200, which is a quarter of the cost of the imported testing kits.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Virologist, Dr Nivedita Gupta, who is a senior scientist at ICMR, is currently designing the treatment and testing protocols for the country. She had played a key role in setting up a viral and diagnostic network for ICMR.
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
On January 30, 2020, the first case of Novel Coronavirus was confirmed in India by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) based in Pune. It is affiliated to the nation’s apex health research body, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and initially, was the only centre that was testing samples for Covid-19.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
The NIV has succeeded in reducing the testing time of Covid-19 samples to just four hours a sample from 12-14 hours, a significant feat that will increase the number of testing.
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
Dr. Renu Swarup
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
Dr. Priya Abraham
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
This breakthrough was made possible because of the relentless efforts of Mylab’s research and development chief, Minal Dhakave Bhosale. Notably, she delivered the working kit for evaluation by NIV on March 18, just a day before delivering her daughter.
In the quest for the treatment of the deadly infection, researchers are racing against time to find an antidote of Coronavirus. Dr. Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology under the science ministry, is one of them. She is also the chairperson of the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), which serves as a bridge between research laboratories and industry.
covid 19
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
The world is facing a crisis like no other. In such trying times, it is the frontline workers who are risking their lives to ensure that others stay safe; it is our medical researchers who are working at record speed to develop a vaccine and effective treatments. We bring you such six women scientists who are going above and beyond their call of duty to make sure that the nation and the world come out of this pandemic, healthy and safe.
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Dr. Nivedita Gupta
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
Minal Dhakave Bhosale
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
As the number of cases spike in different states, the women of Odisha – nurses, Anganwadi workers, healthcare workers and sanitation workers – have set an example of leading the battle against the pandemic.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Leading the charge of this organisation at this crucial juncture is its director, Dr. Priya Abraham. Not only did she make a momentous medical breakthrough by isolating the deadly Coronavirus, but she, along with her team, has also been the guiding force of all the government and private labs that are testing the Coronavirus samples.
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name