5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Reasons for applying General Principles of Law
Applicability of general principles of law is quite common in international arbitration to supplement national law of one of the parties in the contract. Reasons for including general principles of law are varied. One reason may be the infirmity of the law of a jurisdiction to which one party in a contract belongs to. Such weakness may jeopardize their international trade and investment business. Some international laws may not be sufficiently developed to provide a basis for international transactions; sometimes even sophisticated national systems may be conducive only to domestic transactions.  Thus parties choose the applicability of ‘General Principle of Law’ either to supplement the choice of law or to avoid it. Parties refer to ‘General Principle of Law’ with the belief that it will ensure neutral outcomes. This choice made by the parties grants the arbitral tribunal more discretion with respect to the applicable law.
Some fetters on the powers of a Sovereign
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Published 08/08/2023
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Article 38, paragraph 1(c) of the Statute of the International Court of Justice uses the wording, “general principles of law as recognized by civilized nations” and recognized it as a source of law. However, the question of the origin of general principles of law as applied at the international level has also been a matter of controversy. The common perception is that these principles find their origin in the domestic legal systems. Once there is a conviction that some of these general tools are commonly shared principles that can be found in many domestic systems, they can also be applied in international law. They are logical inferences that can be found in any legal system: the principle of reparation for caused damage, the principles of interpretation of rules, or those used for the resolution of conflicts of rules; many of them known through Latin maxims are good examples like Audi alteram partem, actori incumbit onus probandi.
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
In international arbitration disputes, arbitral rules and party autonomy allow parties to choose governing law or substantive law applicable to one of the parties to the contract to govern their substantive disputes. Besides freedom of parties to choose governing law of a particular jurisdiction, they often specify that ‘general principles of laws’ will also apply in addition to substantive law of one of the parties in the contract. Moot question is why parties specify application of general principles of law in addition to governing law of a particular jurisdiction and what is meant by ‘general principle of law’ for governing the disputes and why parties take recourse to it in addition to governing law applicable to one of the parties in the contract.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
General principles of law as a supplement to governing law in international arbitration
The writer is G N Sinha, Professor, UPES School of Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
General principle of law refers to a principle that is recognized in all kinds of legal relations, regardless of the legal system to which it belongs. In International law, it refers to a principle that gives rise to international legal obligations. The adjective ‘general’ indicates that they are principles, which are applied generally in all cases of the same kind, which arise in international law. For example, the principle of non-intervention, pacta sunt servanda, equity, etc.
Understanding General Principles of Law
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
General Principles of Law under ICJ Statute
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
General Principles of Law applicable in International Arbitration
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
Applying general principles of law also insulates an investor in a host country as it applies some fetters on the powers of a sovereign country to amend laws to the disadvantage of one of the parties in a contract. However, a sovereign country can amend its governing law in the public interest with the responsibility to grant equitable compensation to a party of the contract who invested funds in a host country or set up business in a host country. A sovereign also changes its governing law to earn more profit for the state and its home companies. Applying general principles of law as a supplement to governing law makes ground for various remedies like restitution, reparation, and compensation on equitable principles. However, because of its broad scope and lack of elaboration in the literature, results become unpredictable and parties to agreements have little ground on which to base their expectations. Therefore, for proper utilization of the ‘General Principle of Law’ arbitrator is required to conduct an initial inquiry to determine the nature of general principles invoked by the parties. Equitable compensation was followed in many international arbitration disputes like LIMACO arbitration, Amin Oil arbitration, Texaco and Saffire arbitration cases.
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Over the period of time, some of the principles recognized and frequently used in international arbitration acquired the status of general principles of law applicable in international arbitration. These include a sovereign government may make and be bound by contractual agreements with foreign private parties, the corporate veil may be pierced to prevent a beneficial owner from escaping contractual liability, force majeure may justify non-performance of a contract such that the loss is borne by the parties, contracts that seriously violate good morals or international public policy are invalid, equitable compensation constitutes the primary remedy for damages, the rights of property and of acquired vested rights are generally inviolable-a state cannot take it without equitable compensation, and a party may not receive unjust enrichment.
Prof. G.N. Sinha
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022