Demand for EV skilled professionals in future
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Image credit: Unsplash
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
School of Engineering
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
that runs the gamut of major and minor projects designed as per industry and user-oriented solution. It also encompasses an entire range of hands-on experience in the hybrid, electric and renewable energy domain.
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Engineering aspirants can make the most of it by studying B.Tech. in Electric Vehicles.
Mobile Number
Aditya Mukherjee
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
With the increase in demands for EV in the coming days, the requirement of EV skilled professionals will also go up correspondingly and here the catalytic role of an organization and professional institutions will come into play for creating a workforce for the EV Industry.
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
The falling battery prices by around 73% since 2010 has been an icing on the cake for electric cars as these are going to be cheaper as compared to fuel-powered cars in the near future. As per International Energy Agency, by 2025 up to 70 million electric vehicles will ply on the roads.
Tailpipe emissions from EVs are virtually zero. As a result, it reduces the carbon footprint. One can also use renewable energy to further reduce their carbon footprint.
A subscriber email already exists.
While selecting this course students prefer the ones which offer project works. Working regularly on mini projects throughout the course can help students get a fair sense of the subject.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
According to experts, electronic vehicles create a lower carbon footprint over the course of their lifetime than fuel-powered vehicles that still rely on traditional, internal combustion engines.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract brighter and result-oriented aspirants, who can bring value addition to their companies.
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
Published 08/09/2022
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
EV specialization is an academic programme
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
The automobile sector continues to push the envelope of new technologies in order to introduce fuel-economy and eco-friendly vehicles. The introduction of electric vehicles (EV) is nothing short of a revolution in this sector. The demand for electric vehicles is going up exponentially across the world, especially in European countries apart from India.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Students studying Electric Vehicle Technology can get to explore a range of fascinating topics like fundamentals of EV, powertrain, energy storage, EV design and architecture, electric machines and control drive, EV charging infrastructure, BMS and charging lab, EV powertrain, high voltage and automotive safety and lab, intelligent transport system among others.
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
This programme has been specially tailored to make the candidates aware about electric vehicle and its technology. Electric vehicles are going to be the future of our country.
With the automobile industries shifting gears from fuel-powered cars to electric vehicles, there is bound to be a huge demand for candidates with proficiency in EVs and their components.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
The EV sector in India is expected to create nearly 5 million job opportunities by the year 2025.
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
One of the most significant advantages of EVs is their immense impact on our environment. The electric motor of the EV always operates on a closed circuit, and hence, it does not emit any harmful gases.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
You can charge an EV in a brace of shakes, or even go for, if required, battery swapping services to keep driving without being bothered too much about the availability of conventional fuel.
privacy policy
Electric vehicles have started stoking engineering aspirants’ interest in this new technology and its growing relevance in a world that is battling climate change and environmental disintegration.
18/02/2025
Last Name
With the growing popularity of EVs in India, the government has started offering several policies and incentives to encourage the use of such vehicles. A major advantage of buying an electric vehicle is that you have to pay less amount for the registration fees and road tax as compared to ICE vehicles.
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?