First Aid
Diana George
Students of UPES School of Engineering recently showcased nine highly ambitious flagship projects at five of the University’s adopted villages – Bidholi, Bishanpur, Upper Kandoli, Pondha and Donga. The projects were named Flying Cars, Electric Cycle, Waste Management, Water Security, First Aid, Fire and Safety, Women Empowerment through Cultivation of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Solar Driers and Biochar Bio Briquette.
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
Electric Cycle
Solar dryers will be used to remove moisture from household food items like cereals, vegetables and pickles. The device runs on solar power and has various fan speed levels which help in quick drying. It saves time and space and is cost-efficient.
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Waste Management
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
As part of the First Aid project, the students gave a brief presentation on various first aid equipment. They demonstrated CPR and other safety measures. In future, the project aims to provide 24*7 immediate medical assistance.
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
School of Engineering
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
Solar Dryers
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Fire and Safety
Biochar Bio Briquette
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Published 22/12/2021
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
Under this project, the students showed different methods to reduce waste production, such as recycling biodegradable waste to make compost. They also spoke about different types of waste materials and the correct methods for their disposal.
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Women Empowerment Through Cultivation of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
In his address to the gathering, Vice-Chancellor Dr Sunil Rai thanked the Panchayat and the Gram Pradhans for providing UPES with an opportunity to help the villages. The Dean of the School of Engineering, Professor Gurvinder Singh Virk took the opportunity to explain the projects to the community members and thanked the faculty and the students for undertaking projects which will help the villages.
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
This project plans to convert ordinary bicycles into electric ones which can be highly useful in hilly and mountainous areas. These cycles come with a chargeable battery system that can last a distance of 20-25 km and recharge while going downhill.
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Water Security aims to provide clean drinking water to everyone in the village. Students showcased a novel water filter that uses dried orange and sugarcane peels to purify water. The peels soak up the impurities making the water fit for drinking. The project plans to install eco-friendly filters in every house in the village.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
The students of UPES School of Engineering showcased projects on drones, waste management, women empowerment, water security and fire and safety, among others
Please enter last name
Flying Cars
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Under the Flying Cars project, the students demonstrated drones to the audience to show them how UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) can help with community life by transporting materials like medicine and food as well as aiding agricultural activities. The project aims to develop flying cars as a future mode of transport.
Students spoke about different medicinal plants that are easily available in the village such as chamomile, stevia, tulsi and lemongrass which women can use to manufacture medicines and cosmetics and become financially independent. The project aims to develop natural products and reduce the use of high-cost chemical products.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Biochar Bio Briquette is an alternate energy source that is efficient and produces less smoke. The briquettes are made of half-burnt wood and cow dung which will convert orange flames to blue flames with less smoke. Biochar Bio Briquette aims to use energy sources that can prevent health-related problems.
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Water Security
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
The students conducted a mock drill, providing insights on what safety steps should be taken during a fire.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?