Neurodiversity also encompasses neurological challenges resulting from brain injury or other environmental causes. Even among those considered neurotypical, one in four will experience a mental health challenge, such as depression or stress, at some point in life. To address these challenges and create a more inclusive workplace, progressive employers are beginning to recognise that accommodating the different wiring of neurodiverse individuals can provide a huge competitive advantage. This recognition has led to the implementation of more inclusive policies, programs, and procedures, although its impact on workplace design is still in its early stages.
Acoustic Setting
+91
12/09/2024
Designing for Neurodiversity and Inclusion at Workplace
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
Effective acoustic design for the workplace provides a variety of auditory settings to support diverse activities, locates them appropriately relative to one another, and specifies assemblies for acoustic comfort within spaces and acoustic separation between them. Acoustic design may also consider whether a sound masking or white noise system would further increase comfort.
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Neurodiversity refers to the natural range of variation in human neurocognition. It is an umbrella term for people who are not neurotypical and includes conditions such as Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), dyslexia, dyspraxia, and Tourette syndrome, among others.
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
Versatile environments that cater to a range of preferences make differences less apparent, fostering equality and integration. These environments also allow for individual and operational changes, making an organisation more adaptable.
Not To Be Ignored
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
More comprehensively, workplace-wide access to daylight can result in increased physical well-being, improved mental and emotional health, and increased productivity and happiness for all workers. The evidence for our need for daylight is so compelling that several countries have enacted laws requiring workplace access to daylight.
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Focus on establishing landmarks and focal points that can help building users orient themselves.
References
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
The writer is Manas Ranjan Mishra, Professor, Industrial and Product Design, UPES School of Design
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Create spaces that are memorable and have a rhythm of common elements to generate a reassuring sense of order and assist the brain’s innate positioning systems.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Lighting
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
The most common workplace challenges revolve around sensitivity issues. Neurodiverse thinkers can often be over or under-stimulated by factors in their environment such as lighting, sound, texture, smells, temperature, air quality, or the overall sense of security.
To ensure effective design, organisations must:
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
Last Name
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Spatial Dilemma
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
Companies have started to welcome and facilitate diverse talents in individuals who think differently. Neurodiverse thinkers are often found to possess exceptional abilities in innovation, creative storytelling, empathy, design thinking, pattern recognition, coding, and problem-solving. However, neurodiverse workers may not always thrive within existing workplace norms and practices. Alongside their unique talents, people with certain kinds of neurodivergence may struggle with concentration, managing distractions, regulating emotions, recalling information, processing details quickly, or communicating effectively. Despite the sought-after advantages and specialist skill sets that neurodiverse thinkers bring; they frequently face obstacles in securing and maintaining employment.
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
Inclusive Design is Key
How to become a fashion stylist
By focusing on neurodiversity and creating an inclusive workspace, we can move away from stigmatising disability. It can provide companies with a competitive edge that brings measurable benefits, both financially and in terms of workplace culture. It is time for companies to consider this as a social responsibility and work towards improving their workplace culture to accommodate specially challenged in a friendly manner.
https://learning.cognassist.com/course/introduction-to-neurodiversity-in-the-workplace
https://edisciplinas.usp.br/pluginfile.php/5137341/mod_resource/content/0/HOK%20Neurodiverse-Workplace-HOK-web%20%281%29.pdf
https://greencrossglobal.co.uk/neurodiversity/?campaign=20445582622&content=669171929203&keyword
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Give thoughtful consideration to lighting, as it can guide people towards brighter spaces or paths.
Please enter last name
Published 04/12/2023
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
https://www.oktra.co.uk/insights/designing-for-neurodiversity-in-the-workplace/
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Degree of Stimulation
For people with certain types of neurological conditions, visual, auditory, or scent-based sensory cues can be overwhelming. For others, a lack of stimulation is the problem, resulting in an inability to focus. Creating options for employees to control or choose the degree of sensory stimulation in their surroundings is a key aspect of inclusive design. Providing different microenvironments to choose from is one approach. Minimising visual clutter, creating quiet and tech-free zones, and incorporating areas of rest and reprieve into circulation areas and level changes can also be beneficial. The use of colour is a significant consideration. Blues and greens tend to calm and reassure, while yellow, orange, and red serve as stimuli and uplift the mood. Jarring or clashing colours that neurotypical people may overlook can deeply disturb others with heightened sensitivity.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
Design should cover the strategic use of materials, colours, and signage, especially in complex environments. Clear and consistent terminology is critical for some people with neurodivergence. Concise messages, plain typography, and an informational hierarchy can ease sensory overload. Also, consistent cues with redundant messaging in colours, numbers, and words provide multimodal assistance to the full range of building users as they head to their destinations.
privacy policy
Forward-thinking employees, instead of trying to choose or change people to fit their environment, must focus on selecting the right people for their needs and simultaneously help them live more fulfilling lives by adapting the environment to welcome all those with unique talents.
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Manas Ranjan Mishra