5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
If you are someone who has all these traits, then a career in corporate law will be worthwhile for you. Hard work, determination, passion and a degree from a reputed university, will set you firmly on your path to becoming a hotshot corporate lawyer.
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Sharp Analytical Skills
As a corporate lawyer, you must make decisions that are in the best interest of your clients. There will be many instances where you’ll have to concentrate on details, analyse, and then exercise good judgement.
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
Mansha Dhingra
12/08/2024
corporate lawyers
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
If you are a good listener and observer, it will contribute immensely to your corporate law career. The ability to listen carefully and patiently to your clients will help you solve tasks more efficiently.
personality traits
Trending Post
Perseverance:
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
If you are determined to find a solution to every problem, no matter what, then corporate law is the right option for you. If there is a problem, you must be ready find the best solution possible.
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
As a lawyer, you must have public speaking abilities to be able to communicate your point of view with ease. You will have to go through various trials to gain justice for your clients. You would need to be assertive, persuasive, friendly, clear, factual, and have the ability to gauge other’s reactions.
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Being a lawyer means having to distill enormous amounts of information to reach a logical conclusion
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Decision-making:
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
Listening skills:
Pubic Speaking:
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
One of the most viable law courses is BBA LLB Hons. with a specialization in corporate law. The curriculum in this law specialization offers in-depth knowledge of the field. Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organisations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities. But before you set out to pursue an LLB course, you must ensure that you possess the essential personality traits to become a successful lawyer. Given below are a few traits that make a lawyer stand above the rest:
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
: Being a lawyer means having to distill enormous amounts of information to reach a logical conclusion. Often, there is more than one way for a conflict resolution; you must choose the best suitable option for your client.
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
If you can tackle multiple tasks competently by finding the best solution for each one of them, then the field of law is a perfect choice for you. There will be many problems and responsibilities that will be thrown your way throughout the day. No two problems will be alike. Regardless of that, you’ll have to competently resolve them.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
The legal field is considered prestigious as it helps an individual or organisation get justice within the ambit of law. It is one of the reasons why many students are opting for law in the present times. There are plenty of specializations in the law field to choose from. These include banking, finance and insurance law, criminal law, corporate law, medical and forensic law, labour law, and many more.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Multitasking:
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
Published 17/06/2020
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022