Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
HPAIR is an exchange forum for students and young professionals to discuss and learn about the most important economic, political, and social issues facing the Asia-Pacific region. HUII is an initiative that aims to create a dialogue between Indian and American youth to address India’s crucial social, political, economic, and environmental issues. Each year, HUII organises a conference in India to provide Indian youth with the opportunity to hear from inspiring leaders and engage in discussions with them. It brings together prominent keynote speakers and industry leaders on the same table, thus serving as a forum for the enlightened minds of India to engage and connect with the leaders of today and tomorrow.
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
The writer is Ronika Tater, student, BBA, LL.B., Corporate Law Hons, UPES School of Law (2017-22)
Due to health reasons, I could not attend the HPAIR conference, but I attended the prestigious HUII session in February last year, which took place virtually due to COVID-19. There were around 500 delegates and notable speakers including Kiran Shaw, Manish Malhotra, Manoj Sinha, and Anjali Bansal to name a few.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
shakti for women
Ronika Tater
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
During my second year of graduation at UPES, I came to know about the professional networking website LinkedIn. Through the connections I made on the platform, I became aware of the conferences that Harvard University organises. These conferences attract top employers, have industry-specific networking and information sessions, and provide valuable insights and contacts. Curious to participate in these summits, I started checking the Harvard website for regular updates. As soon as the dates of the conferences were announced, I filled the application form available on the website with all the details including my academic experience, extra-curricular activities, interests, and the statement of purpose.
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
I feel honoured to have attended the prestigious conference, where I got the opportunity to interact with eminent personalities and bright delegates from a wide range of backgrounds, such as politics, media, law, technology, and humanitarianism, who are pushing the boundaries of intellect in their respective fields. I was delighted with the friendliness and warmth that I received from other participants. The conference gave me a global perspective on benefitting from the exchange of ideas, sharing of legal expertise and socialising with international counterparts. It was an excellent opportunity to network and learn from the brilliant work done by other people presenting at the conference.
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences held at Harvard University in 2020: The Harvard Project for Asian and International Relations (HPAIR) and the Harvard US-India Initiative (HUII).
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
UPES Stars
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Published 31/03/2021
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
I would like to apply for many such conferences in the future as it promotes holistic development. I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to my professors, friends, and family for always supporting and encouraging me in my endeavours.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name