ResearchGate
+91
Content Developer
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
, Dehradun, prepares its students in various aspects of journalism and mass communication – from writing for media to developing communication skills to learning the basics of electronic and digital productions. The journalism course bridges the gap between theory and practice by engaging with industry experts who bring real-world knowledge and experience to our students.
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Columnist
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
People rely on truth-seeking journalism that is free from commercial and political influence. Everyone deserves to read accurate news and thoughtful perspectives on critical issues and events. As more and more become well-informed, they get inspired to take calculated decisions and meaningful action.
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Proof-Reader
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
Digital Media Executive
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Published 10/08/2022
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Over the years, and especially in the last decade, there have been fascinating innovations in media, especially the way news is covered, written, edited, and reported. The type of content – features, editorials, podcasts, columns, videos, news – has diversified depending on the channel of information dissemination such as print, broadcast, and the internet media.
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
Screen Writer
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
India Brand Equity Foundation
A subscriber email already exists.
upes school of modern media
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Business Editor
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
However, it was after the invention of the printing press that the world saw its first proper newspaper in the 1600s, ‘The Relation’ (as recognised by the World Association of News Publishers). Mass media developed exponentially with the rise of recording technology like the telephone and the creation of photography. During the 1900s, radio and television appeared. But what really changed the game was the advent of the internet and social media platforms in the 21st century. In every era, there were brave, brilliant, and clear-eyed journalists at work; journalists such as Joseph Pulitzer and Ramnath Goenka, who are known for their legacy of speaking truth to power even today.
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world. The degree opens the door to several opportunities including Features Writer, Digital Media Executive, Content Developer, to name a few
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
Year 1556. The government of Venice published a monthly written notice to convey information about politics, economics, and military matters throughout Europe. It was called the Notizie scritte, a term that eventually came to mean ‘newspaper’.
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
Editor
--None--
Photojournalist
India currently has over 400 news channels. In 2020, news viewership across languages jumped to an all-time high, according to the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). A survey reveals that online sources, too, raked in significant numbers last year, with an increase in the payment of digital news. In several countries, online news overtook television as the most frequently used source of news. Brexit, Black Lives Matter, the US presidential elections, climate change emergency and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic were the most covered issues worldwide.
Investigative Journalist
There is, therefore, a compelling need for quality journalism and media to sift through the noise of information overload and report the truth with a balanced analysis. A degree in MA Journalism and Mass Communication can open the doors for careers in several profiles including:
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
UPES School of Modern Media
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Illustrator
Editor’s Guild of India
journalism and mass communication
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Sub-Editor
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES School of Modern Media nurtures students to thrive in an ever-evolving media ecosystem. As India’s only digital-first media school, the school instills foundational skills and knowledge that position graduates to stay ahead in a world where media is interactive, immediate, and always on.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Features Writer
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
In terms of market share, global print media is expected to grow from $287.87 billion in 2020 to $313.28 billion in 2021 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8.8%. In India alone, daily newspapers reported a combined circulation of over 240 million copies as of 2018, making the country the second-largest newspaper market in the world.
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Image credit: Pixabay
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
References:
18/02/2025
17/09/2024