5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Dominion Expansion and the Anastomosis of AI and IT Sectors: A Futuristic Vision
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
On the other hand, the humanoid is being infused with general intelligence, making them capable of gathering data, analysing it, and using that data to make the machine learn to perform and act similarly to humans, including deep learning. These machines infused with artificial intelligence are showcasing the potential of more than a superhuman; still, these humanoids require human supervision. If it is said that artificial intelligence has reached the saturation point in the form of humanoids, it appears that the journey has just begun.
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
The writer is Dr. Gagandeep Kaur, Associate Professor, UPES School of Law
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
A new storm in the form of a technological revolution was waiting to sweep away the industry. Information technology was not just a milestone in human civilization; it was, moreover, the transmutation of human civilization from mechanical to virtual. The Industrial Revolution resulted in transformation within territorial limitations, whereas the information technology revolution resulted in the eradication of terrestrial limits, making the entire world a virtual village.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
The current century is dedicated to technology. It won’t be an exaggeration to say that we are in the age of superior technologies. It is evident that the changes technology has brought to humankind have been unimaginable. Technology in every field has catalysed drastic changes. The focal center chosen for this discussion is the artificial intelligence and information technology sectors. The selection of these sectors for the discussion has deliberate reasons. These sectors not only share the common genesis of computer technology, but the expansion has also brought exceptional transformation to every aspect of human lives.
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
The research and development in the field of information technology expanded the digital market, and several types of gadgets made it to the market, but AI converted the entire digital market into smart markets, which is a market with smart devices and applications. These applications use narrow artificial intelligence to perform functions, though they are very basic. Software applications using artificial intelligence have become more human interactive, like voice or face recognition applications.
Dr. Gagandeep Kaur
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Published 10/11/2023
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
The Industrial Revolution was a milestone, not only in terms of the industry, but it also led to changes in social pedigree. The manufacturing processes that were being performed manually became mechanical, resulting in large-scale production, catering to the needs of the larger population. Stakeholders were flabbergasted by the progression that led to an increase in their financial and social standing. They were unaware of what the future held for the industrial sector.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
Every substance in nature is subject to constant change, as change leads to transformation and ultimately results in progression and development. Such variation not only affects the very nature of the subject matter but also changes the future course as well. Similarly, mankind has witnessed divergent transformational changes in its journey of civilizational development. From the discovery of fire, the wheel, and agriculture, to the Industrial Revolution every phase has manifested the progression of human civilization.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Transmission of information that used to take several days to be delivered became a matter of seconds with IT.  Information technology exhibited the potential not only in one aspect but also became the starting point for the unfolding of a series of events. The industry that was manual became mechanised, and with the infusion of IT, it turned computerised, changing the entire facets of the industry. The moment it was thought the IT sector had revealed its full potential, a new facet of IT began to emerge in the form of digitalisation.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Digitalisation resulted in the enhanced capability of technology to compress a large amount of information into smaller devices. When it was felt that technology reached its penultimate level, a new concept in the series that began with the Industrial Revolution emerged, known as automation. However, as far as terminologies are concerned, automation is an element attached to the industry and information technology. Here, the automation we are discussing is related to another facet of technology known as artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is, moreover, a replication of the complex structure and working of the human brain.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
The next step of technology will be more revolutionary. We are talking about explainable artificial intelligence. Where the current AI requires human supervision, explainable AI shall have the capacity to supervise humans. That is the reason that apprehension has emerged that the coming human generations shall become the slaves of technology. With the growing progression of artificial intelligence, it appears this thought might get converted into reality.
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
The author(s) believe that looking at the current trends, human survival without technology seems unimaginable. But before technology takes over humanity, it is necessary to strike a balance between the development and the progression of technology. There is no doubt that technological advancement is necessary to deal with the problems of the current and coming decades; however, it can’t be at the cost of humanity. Hence, the author(s) advocate for more sustainable technology in human development, be it AI or any other.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022