Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Published 18/01/2023
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
upes school of health sciences
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI 2011) enforces each food processing industry/restaurants/hotels to follow all FSSAI regulations for maintaining hygiene, cleanliness, safe food production, and supply. As a profession, food technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition.
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Why UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology?
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
However, it is crucial to study the program from a university that is abreast with the latest developments in the industry. If you want to learn, learn from the experts.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
In a world that faces the challenge of feeding 9.7 billion people by 2050 – a sharp rise from the current global population of 7.9 billion – governments are looking at ground-breaking innovations in food technology to solve the issue of food security. Food technology is also getting attention due to increased consumer awareness about what goes on their plate, where it comes from, as well as changing food preferences that seek alternatives to conventional food items. Environmental concerns are also augmenting the need for a better understanding of the subject.
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
During their long expeditions, explorers such as James Cook and Christopher Columbus carried foods preserved in syrup and brine (a highly concentrated salt-water solution) for their longer shelf life. In 1810, French confectioner Nicholas Appert developed the canning process – an airtight food preservation method that is used practically everywhere today. In 1863, Louis Pasteur developed the Pasteurisation process, which helps improve the shelf life of food products. In 1961, Soviet cosmonaut Yuri A. Gagarin became the first human to eat in space, squeezing beef paste from an aluminium tube into his mouth. Day by day, novel techniques are continuously being employed in food processing for minimal nutritional and sensory losses.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Image by DCStudio
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
UPES School of Health Sciences has a tie-up with Taipei Medical University, Taiwan to provide opportunities for students, research scholars, and faculty for academic collaboration and joint research projects.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
A B.Tech. in Food Technology from UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology lays a solid foundation in all areas of the subject and offers specialisations such as Food Biotechnology and Food Plant Engineering. Besides classroom teaching, students are given clinical and community exposure so that they become active change-makers and solution providers for the healthcare sector. The jobs and entrepreneur-oriented knowledge and facilities are provided to students.
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
on Freepik
25/10/2024
The industry-aligned curriculum taught by faculty who are specialists in their respective fields along with active collaborations with industry leaders enables students to develop professional competencies required to address the world’s health challenges.
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
It is crucial to provide enough nutrients and nutraceuticals in food in addition to satisfying the satiety. A micronutrient deficiency, which affects more than 2 billion people, not only has negative effects on one’s own health but also on the global economy. When someone has a disease, special foods and individualised diets are created. Both weight gain and weight loss foods are created. Energy drinks and protein powder are now widely available in the market as sports foods.
What began as an attempt to conserve food has gradually transformed into a comprehensive field known as Food Technology. Today, along with preservation, it involves the production, quality control, as well as research and development of food products. Processing of food prevents food wastage, improves economical gain, and generates employment. The processed food with higher shelf life can be supplied to longer distances, leading to a surge in food markets.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Last Name