Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
The impact of biotechnological research and development can be seen across various industries, particularly in the healthcare industry. Biotechnology methods and techniques in the healthcare industry have brought up new research opportunities for figuring out how healthy bodies function and what goes wrong when they don’t. Understanding the molecular basis of health and illness also leads to more effective treatments and prevention strategies.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
In the modern day, biotechnology has grown to embrace new and varied sciences such as genomics, applied immunology, and the creation of pharmacological medicines and diagnostic tests.
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
B.Tech. in Biotechnology
25/07/2024
Get started with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology from UPES. At UPES, B.Tech. Biotechnology students specialising in Genomics & Biosimilars will learn about existing legislation, manufacturing technologies, and biosimilar product distribution procedures in India and throughout the world. Students will also study the discourse concerning generic drugs and the necessity for developing biosimilar products, amongst other things.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Biotechnology: Relevance in the modern world
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Another area of medicine where biotechnology has had a significant influence is in the reduction of diagnostic expenses.
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity. As a result, choosing biotechnology as a major career path is one of the smartest choices you can make for your future.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
School of Health Sciences and Technology
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
Biotechnology, without a doubt, contributes significantly to the expanding public and global health demands. The need for biotechnology specialists has expanded dramatically as a result of Covid-19 exposing the necessity for medical professionals across numerous disciplines. People are now increasingly turning to biotechnology specialists to return their lives to normalcy, and this is where a degree in biotechnology becomes relevant.
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
Biotechnology Engineering is one of science and technology’s most advanced fields. From Physics, Chemistry, and Biology to Engineering and Mathematics, the discipline encompasses a wide range of concepts and principles that are combined to build products and solutions that improve human existence. Generally, a biotechnology engineer studies, improves, and develops bioprocesses from the laboratory to the factory-scale using an integrated approach that combines fundamental biological sciences and engineering concepts.
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
Published 25/01/2022
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
You can also work in a variety of positions during the course of your career.  Biochemists, Biomedical Engineers, Bio-Manufacturing Specialists, Clinical Technicians, Medical Scientists, Process Development Scientists, Microbiologists, and others are some of the most well-known career pathways in biotechnology.
Biotechnology has also resulted in the development of new types of genetic testing. There are about 1,000 such tests available now, many of which are for hereditary illnesses and others for disease predisposition. Other developing uses of genetic testing include predicting drug response and assisting with dietary planning.
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
to get started with UPES right away.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
With the immense potential of genomics and other advancements in the biological sciences, the role of biotechnological research to enhance public health and minimize global healthcare disparities is more important than ever before, especially in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Biotechnology has become an important element of the medical world, whether it is the manufacture of genetically enhanced treatments for diseases, the strengthening of immunity against diseases, or the production of drugs and vaccines for the treatment of various diseases. Biotechnology products in human healthcare include more rapid and accurate diagnostic tests, medicines with minimal side effects, and newer and safer vaccines.
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Because of modern biotechnology-based diagnostic techniques, we can now diagnose numerous illnesses and medical disorders more rapidly and accurately. The latest generation of home pregnancy tests, which yield more accurate results much sooner than previous tests, is perhaps the most notable example of this.
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Biotechnology is a vast field of biology that involves the development or manufacture of items using living systems and organisms. It frequently integrates with related scientific subjects, depending on the tools and applications used. In the past, combining science and technology to solve global health issues has produced great outcomes.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Click here
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Image credit: Pixabay
privacy policy
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Last Name