Around 80% of women across the world suffer from period pain or dysmenorrhoea, according to a study by Women’s Health Concern. Characterised by pain in the lower abdomen, it is the most common symptom of menstruation. Women experience cramps at some stage during their lifetime – from early teens right up to menopause. For 10% of the women, the pain is so severe that it can disrupt their daily lives.
Diana George
Trending Post
Published 22/04/2022
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
+91
The target audience of this product is women of all age groups. Nuveni says, “First, I am focussing on the women working in the urban sector. Then, I would like to expand the reach to rural areas. I will try to tie up with governments and NGOs so we can take it to the grassroots level. The goal is for every woman, irrespective of their geographical location and economic background, to have access to the product and live better lives. Every woman deserves a pain-free period.”
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
Please enter first name
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
Tags
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
-- None --
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Submit
For Nuveni Raina, too, the problem was no different. She researched and found that period pain affected females at schools, universities, workplaces, and social activities. According to a study published in the British Medical Journal, period pain led to nearly nine days of lost productivity per woman per year. One in five young women reported missing school or university due to dysmenorrhea. And out of those who attended classes while feeling ill (presenteeism), two in five said that pain impacted their concentration and performance in class. Several young girls fell behind during their final years of schooling.
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
Please select Course
--None--
of UPES.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Subscribe
Course Type
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
So, Nuveni decided to take the matter into her hands, quite literally. A second-year design student at UPES, she developed ‘Vindyavasini’, a period cramp relief belt that alleviates period cramps by giving out heat and vibrations. Users can change the heat intensity with an app.
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Select Course
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
However, there are several products in the market that claim to relieve period pain. “But no one offers this particular product in India,” Nuveni says. She explains, “There are heating belts, which are not very handy, so you cannot carry them to say your workplace; hot water bags need to be reheated several times, and then there are heating patches, but you cannot regulate the heat and it does not last for more than five hours per use.”
the
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
Her promising start-up recently raised a funding of INR 1 lakh from investor Rahul Narvekar, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of The India Network, through the Runway Incubator. “I will be using the money to improve my prototype by making changes to accommodate the needs of the user. I am looking forward to helping women get through their period without pain,” Nuveni signs off.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
privacy policy
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Last Name
How does she plan to market the product? “I would like to advertise the product on every channel possible. I would also give the prototype to women to try for themselves and then pass the information to more women around them. I would also reach out to the companies already working in this sector,” Nuveni says.