7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the most popular and lucrative career options after BBA is to pursue an MBA degree. MBA is a two-year postgraduate course that offers advanced and specialized knowledge and skills in various domains. An MBA degree can open up many opportunities for you in the corporate world, as well as in the public and non-profit sectors. You can also opt for an MBA in entrepreneurship if you want to start your own venture.
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship. A BBA degree can equip you with the skills and knowledge to start your own business, work in various sectors and industries, or pursue higher education in management.
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Conclusion
Published 09/07/2024
If you have a talent and interest for writing, speaking, or presenting, then media and communication can be a stimulating and fulfilling career option for you after BBA. Media and communication is the sector that deals with the creation, dissemination, and consumption of information and entertainment through various channels, such as newspapers, magazines, books, radio, television, internet, etc. Media and communication offers various roles and profiles, such as journalist, editor, writer, anchor, reporter, producer, director, etc.
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
5. Marketing and Sales
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
Another booming and exciting career option after BBA is digital marketing. Digital marketing is the process of promoting and selling products or services using online platforms, such as websites, social media, email, search engines, mobile apps, etc. Digital marketing involves various strategies and techniques, such as SEO, SEM, SMM, email marketing, content marketing, influencer marketing, video marketing, etc.
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
If you have a flair for organizing and managing events, such as weddings, parties, concerts, conferences, etc., then event management can be a creative and satisfying career option for you after BBA. Event management is the process of planning, designing, executing, and evaluating events that meet the objectives and expectations of the clients and the attendees. Event management involves various aspects, such as budgeting, venue selection, catering, entertainment, marketing, logistics, etc. Event management offers various roles and profiles, such as event manager, event planner, event coordinator, event designer, etc.
If you have a curiosity and an aptitude for data and analytics, then data science can be a fascinating and lucrative career option for you after BBA. Data science is the field that uses scientific methods, algorithms, and systems to extract insights and knowledge from structured and unstructured data. Data science involves various disciplines, such as mathematics, statistics, computer science, machine learning, artificial intelligence, etc. Data science offers various roles and profiles, such as data analyst, data engineer, data scientist, machine learning engineer, etc.
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
14/09/2024
Subscribe
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
9. Hospitality and Tourism
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
1. MBA (Master of Business Administration)
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
3. Banking and Finance
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
We will list the top 10 best career options after BBA degree. So, without further ado, let’s get started.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
8. Event Management
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
7. Data Science
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
6. Entrepreneurship
Please enter mobile number
If you have a knack for dealing with people and managing their needs and expectations, then human resources can be a rewarding career option for you after BBA. Human resources is the function that handles the recruitment, training, development, compensation, performance appraisal, and retention of the employees in an organization. Human resources also plays a key role in creating and maintaining a positive and productive work culture and environment. Human resources offer various roles and profiles, such as HR manager, HR executive, HR generalist, HR specialist, recruiter, trainer, etc.
04/10/2024
2. Digital Marketing
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
If you have a flair for numbers and money, then banking and finance can be a great career option for you after BBA. Banking and finance is the sector that deals with the management of money, credit, investments, and other financial services. Banking and finance offers various roles and profiles, such as bank manager, financial analyst, financial planner, financial advisor, investment banker, credit analyst, risk manager, etc.
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
If you have a creative and persuasive mind and love to interact with customers and clients, then marketing and sales can be a fun and challenging career option for you after BBA. Marketing and sales is the function that deals with the identification, creation, and delivery of value to the customers and clients. Marketing and sales involve various activities, such as market research, product development, pricing, distribution, advertising, promotion, branding, etc. Marketing and sales offer various roles and profiles, such as marketing manager, marketing executive, sales manager, sales executive, business development manager, account manager, etc.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
How the university taught me the power of networking
If you have a passion for travel and hospitality, then hospitality and tourism can be an exciting and rewarding career option for you after BBA. Hospitality and tourism is the sector that deals with the provision of accommodation, food, transportation, and entertainment to the travellers and tourists. Hospitality and tourism offer various roles and profiles, such as hotel manager, restaurant manager, travel agent, tour operator, tour guide, etc.
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
BBA is a versatile and valuable degree that can open up many doors for you in the professional world. Whether you want to pursue higher education, join the corporate sector, start your own business, or explore other fields, BBA can give you the edge and the skills you need to succeed. However, choosing the right career option after BBA is not an easy task. You need to consider your interests, strengths, goals, and opportunities before making a decision. We hope this blog post has helped you to get some ideas and insights about the top 10 best career options after BBA degree. Remember, the choice is yours, and the sky is the limit. All the best for your future.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
10. Media and Communication
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
If you have a dream and a vision to start your own business and make a difference in the world, then entrepreneurship can be the ultimate career option for you after BBA. Entrepreneurship is the process of creating, launching, and running a new business venture that offers a unique product or service to the market. Entrepreneurship involves various aspects, such as ideation, innovation, validation, funding, team building, marketing, sales, operations, etc. Entrepreneurship offers various benefits, such as autonomy, flexibility, creativity, growth, and impact.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Email Address
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
4. Human Resources
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name