Become future-ready with our Liberal Studies programs
Let us decode the three concepts for a more informed understanding:
Career Scope
- All three degrees aim to foster critical thinking, analytical skills, and effective communication.
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
- Emphasize flexibility, allowing students to design their coursework from multiple disciplines.
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Differences and Similarities:
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
- Examples include a B.A. in Liberal Studies with customized concentrations such as Education or Public Policy.
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Liberal Arts Degrees:
- Examples include a B.A. in Liberal Arts, combining literature, philosophy, and sociology.
Arts
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Here’s a list of key focus areas and how they are addressed in specific courses:
- Emphasize specialized knowledge in one field with limited interdisciplinary exposure.
- Opt for Liberal Arts if you enjoy exploring connections between disciplines.
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Skills Acquired Through Programs
Key Aspects to Consider Before Choosing
Research industries and roles that resonate with your aspirations.
Please enter email address
Future Career Scope
Focus
Extensive
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
-Liberal Studies: Business Communication, Public Administration, Digital Humanities, Educational Leadership.
Salary Comparison
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Skills Acquired
Conclusion
Determine if you thrive in structured or flexible learning environments.
Industries to Work In
Call Me
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
- Liberal Studies: Corporate sectors, startups, education management, and consultancy.
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Applied problem solving
- Focus on critical thinking, creativity, and communication.
All there are great programs to study. However, before making a choice, consider the below factors for a clearer view:
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
- Arts Graduates: Careers in academia, research, publishing, or creative arts.
Have a look at the unique market-demanded skill sets you can acquire through these programs:
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
With unique skill sets, one can also have unique career scopes:
Assess potential salaries and growth opportunities in your chosen path.
Higher Studies
Skill Development:
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
- Offer a broad, interdisciplinary curriculum covering humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and mathematics.
Decide if you want a specialized or diverse knowledge base.
- Often include applied learning and real-world problem-solving.
Discipline-specific
- Choose Arts if you are passionate about mastering a specific field.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Which is better?
By
Limited
the
Similarities:
Prospects of Higher Studies
Which is Better?
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Arts, Liberal Arts, and Liberal Studies degrees each have their unique advantages, but the right choice depends on your personal goals and aspirations. By weighing the differences and considering your long-term plans, you can make an informed decision that sets the foundation for a fulfilling career.
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
-Liberal Studies: $45,000 to $70,000 annually, especially in administrative and applied sectors.
- Arts: Publishing, museums, education, creative industries.
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
- Liberal Arts: Graduate programs in law, business, or interdisciplinary studies.
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Published 14/12/2024
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
- They include foundational courses in writing, research, and ethics.
Career Goals:
So often we hear someone is pursuing arts, liberal arts pr liberal studies, and it really sends us into a frenzy as to what do they all mean, and how they are similar or different! Choosing the right undergraduate program is often a perplexing task, especially when terms like Arts, Liberal Arts, and Liberal Studies are thrown into the mix. While these degrees share some similarities, they cater to different academic interests, career paths, and skill sets. Here’s a detailed breakdown to help you decide which path suits your goals best.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
Key Aspects to consider
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
26/07/2024
Last Name
Specializations
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Approach
All three degrees open doors to some of the most rewarding careers. Take a look:
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Industries to Work
Future Prospects:
Table of Contents:
- Liberal Arts: Media, government, NGOs, multinational organizations.
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
You can browse
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
- Go for Liberal Studies if you prefer flexibility and practical, career-focused learning.
-- None --
Moderate
Theoretical
--None--
Problem-solving, adaptability, communication, and leadership
Program
-Arts: Entry-level roles typically offer $30,000 to $50,000 annually, depending on specialization.
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
ventures.
- Arts: M.A. in the same discipline, Ph.D., or creative degrees like M.F.A.
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
The “best” degree depends entirely on your career aspirations and interests:
What are social internships and why they matter
Liberal Studies Degrees:
Please enter last name
Electives
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Liberal Arts
-Liberal Arts Graduates: Roles in consulting, media, public policy, marketing, or international organizations.
BA vs. B.Sc: Which Undergraduate Degree Is Right for You?
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
Interests:
20/08/2024
Arts Degrees:
Broad analytical and critical skills
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
-Arts: Literature, Psychology, History, Political Science, Fine Arts.
Email Address
Specializations Offered
Our counsellors are just a click away.
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Interdisciplinary
’s programs for a brighter future. Get enrolled TODAY!
Read further to have an idea about the typical salary range one can expect:
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
Aspect
UPES, Dehradun
- Liberal Studies: Specialized master’s degrees tailored to chosen concentrations, including MBAs and M.Ed.
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Writing, in-depth research, subject expertise
- Typically focus on a specific discipline within the humanities, fine arts, or social sciences.
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Differences & Similarities
If you are wondering which courses to adopt after graduation, here’s a list to help you:
- Examples include a B.A. in History, English, or Fine Arts.
-Liberal Studies Graduates: Opportunities in project management, administration, education, and entrepreneurial.
-Liberal Arts: $40,000 to $60,000 annually, with potential growth in consulting and management roles.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Customizable
Practical
-Liberal Arts: Philosophy, Environmental Studies, International Relations, Media Studies.
Understand the core skills each program offers and their alignment with your career needs.
privacy policy
Course Structure & Comparison
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
Financial Outlook:
Each degree come with its unique sets of specialisations. Let’s decode:
Liberal Studies
Subject specific expertise
18/02/2025
Theoretical + Practical
Critical thinking, interdisciplinary analysis, creativity
17/09/2024
Know More