Diana George
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Describing the SFL lab, Dr Mathur says that it is equipped with state-of-the-art fabrication techniques such as 3D printing, laser cutting/engraving and screen printing, which are beneficial for developing cost-effective and efficient device platforms aimed at societal benefits.
In addition to his research work, Dr Mathur is also deeply committed to promoting science education and awareness in India. He has organised and participated in a number of outreach programs aimed at inspiring young students to pursue careers in science and engineering. He has mentored several undergraduate and graduate students, many of whom have gone on to have successful careers in academia and industry.
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
Cutting-edge research for health and environment causes by UPES nanotechnologist
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Research
Apart from Hirschsprung’s Disease detection, Dr Mathur’s team at SFL is also committed towards developing sensors for social causes such as women’s safety, environmental protection, and drug abuse prevention.
With his excellent research background, Dr Mathur has developed collaborative ties with national and international centres of excellence in research, such as IIT-Delhi, IIT-Mumbai, the universities of Cambridge and Ulster, UK, and various universities in South Africa, Australia, France, and Canada.
Please enter first name
The team has been working towards creating an app that can reveal if a drink has been spiked, and fabricated sensors to detect the presence of heavy metal in water, adulterants in milk, and recreational drugs in drinks.
Dr Mathur has attended over 150 national and international conferences, seminars, and workshops in India and around the world. He has over 115 research articles, over 1700 citations and 27 patents to his name. He is the proud recipient of prestigious awards like the DST-UKIERI, the INSA young scientist fellowship and the Young Scientist Award at the International Conference on Advances in Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology (ICANN).
Mobile Number
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Astrologer. Researcher. Reiki master healer. Scientist. Nanotechnologist. Social worker. Entrepreneur.
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
Their other nanotechnology-based innovations seek to provide affordable healthcare through sensors that can detect glucose and Vitamin D3 levels in the human body, spot early-stage cardiac disease, and diagnose diabetic foot ulcers through smart bandages.
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
Apart from doing a Ph.D. in Nanotechnology and Microfluidic Sensors, Dr Mathur has also completed online certificates in Operations Management from Wharton Business School and Change Management from Adam Smith Business School, University of Glasgow.
We are not describing different people, but one individual – Dr Aashish Mathur, Senior Associate Professor at Center for Inter-disciplinary Research and Innovation (CIDRI), UPES.
-- None --
Research and Innovation
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
“We are driven towards the development of cutting-edge nanotechnology-enabled technologies for healthcare, food quality and environment monitoring for creating a more sustainable startup ecosphere in Uttarakhand region,” Dr Mathur says.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Currently, he is leading a team of researchers at UPES’ Sensor Fabrication Lab (SFL) to formulate the world’s first device to detect Hirschsprung’s Disease, a congenital disorder of the intestines that affects 1 in 5000 infants and is responsible for 25-30% mortality rate among children born with this condition.
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
“The lab is funded by national and international funding bodies such as Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), UK-India Education Research Initiative (UKIERI), Indo-ASEAN, and a generous seed grant support by UPES,” he adds.
Dr Mathur is not your average scientist. His varied interests have led him to dabble in a variety of fields that are as different from each other as chalk and cheese.
Dr Mathur’s impressive list of awards and recognitions highlights his dedication to scientific research and his exceptional contributions to the field of nanotechnology-enabled biosensors. His innovative work at UPES’ Sensor Fabrication Lab has the potential to revolutionise disease detection and environmental protection, and his contributions to the scientific community have not gone unnoticed.
Related Articles
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Dr Aashish Mathur, Senior Associate Professor at Center for Inter-disciplinary Research and Innovation (CIDRI), UPES, is currently leading a research team at UPES’ Sensor Fabrication Lab that seeks to make cutting edge nanotechnology-based sensors for various causes including disease detection and environmental protection
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
Published 07/03/2023
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name