Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
AI and ML are premier career paths in the 21st century because they offer:
+91
According to Glassdoor, AI and ML are among the highest-paying jobs in 2020, with a median base salary of $146,085 for AI engineers and $142,859 for ML engineers.
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
AI and ML are diverse and dynamic fields that offer a variety of job roles and responsibilities. Depending on your skills, qualifications, interests, and goals, you can choose from a range of AI and ML job roles that suit your profile and preferences. Some of the most common and popular AI and ML job roles are:
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
AI/ML Product Manager:
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
High salary and satisfaction:
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
Conclusion
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
High demand and growth: As we mentioned above the World Economic Forum said that the AI and ML are among the top emerging professions of the future, with a projected growth of 41% between 2020 and 2025. The demand for AI and ML professionals is expected to increase across various sectors and regions, as more organizations adopt and integrate these technologies into their products and services.
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
20/12/2024
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
AI and ML are premier career paths in the 21st century, as they offer high demand and growth, high salary and satisfaction, and high impact and innovation. To pursue AI and ML as career paths, one needs to have a combination of technical, analytical, and soft skills, as well as relevant qualifications and experience. If you are interested in learning more about AI and ML, we recommend you check out our course on Artificial Intelligence, the course is suitable for learners of all levels, and offers a recognized and respected credential in the market and community.
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science. The World Economic Forum predicts that AI and ML will create 41% more jobs between 2020 and 2025, with a total of 1 million new jobs in the market. AI and ML have been transforming various industries and domains, such as healthcare, education, entertainment, finance, and manufacturing. They have also been creating new opportunities and challenges for society, such as ethical, legal, and social implications.
AI and ML professionals also enjoy high levels of job satisfaction, as they get to work on challenging and meaningful problems, use cutting-edge tools and techniques, and collaborate with diverse and talented teams.
Submit
Select Course
A professional who designs, develops, and deploys AI and ML systems and solutions for various domains and applications.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Software Developer with Expertise in AI and ML:
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
Published 14/07/2024
Data Scientist:
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
AI/ML Engineer:
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
Why AI and ML are Premier Career Paths?
A professional who develops software applications and systems that use AI and ML for various domains and applications.AI and ML, and publishes papers, patents, or books.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
AI/ML Researcher:
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
AI/ML Educator:
High impact and innovation: AI and ML have the potential to create positive and lasting impact on society and the environment, by solving some of the most pressing and complex issues of our time, such as climate change, poverty, health, education, and security.
A professional who uses data, AI, and ML to generate insights and solutions for various domains and applications.
A professional who provides expert advice and guidance on AI and ML projects and solutions for various clients and organizations.
Career Opportunities in AI and ML
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Let’s explore why AI and ML are premier career paths in the 21st century and what are the career opportunities in the same.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
A professional who teaches and trains students, professionals, or enthusiasts in AI and ML, using various courses and resources.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
A professional who manages the development and delivery of AI and ML products and services for various domains and applications.
UPES Admission Enquiry
AI/ML Consultant:
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A professional who conducts academic or industrial research in AI and ML, and publishes papers, patents, or books.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Last Name