Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
A person’s capability to be conscious of his/her emotions and be able to control and express them as well as being familiar with the emotions of others defines their Emotional Intelligence (EI). You display high EI if you have empathy, integrity and can work well with others. Merely putting yourself into someone’s shoes is not EI but to act upon and understand others makes you emotionally intelligent.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
It refers to the one-on-one verbal language skills, writing skills, presentation skills, and in general the ability to express feelings, thoughts, opinions and suggestions clearly and professionally. A candidate with excellent communication skills has always been a coveted choice of all the recruiters.
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
What do employers want?
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Recruiters today rely more on your learning agility than intelligence. To flourish in today’s multifaceted business arena, we need to be agile, adaptable and open to new ways of doing things. In the current scenario, the business environment has become more dynamic and volatile than ever before. Business navigators can no longer bank upon the strategies that have worked in the past or even those that are working today.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
4. Excellent Communication Skills
01/10/2024
25/07/2024
*
We have witnessed the role of creativity during this pandemic. Many enterprises have shifted to deliver their services in the healthcare domain. Mercedes F1 has started to gear up to produce state-of-the-art breathing aids.
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Recruiters want candidates who can thrive in a culture of change and can continuously upgrade themselves in the way they work and think
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
Adaptability leads to more productivity. Recruiters value candidates who showcase adaptability as a key element of their personality and professional outlook. They want people who can respond to change and new ways of working positively; who are passionate and confident to rise to the challenge of dealing with the unknown and prove that they can cope with the new and the unanticipated.
When we talk about the skills that recruiters seek while hiring, all prospective employers explicitly mention agility and a positive attitude in the candidate as requisites. A candidate having an optimistic outlook towards his work and a willingness to learn new ways to accomplish targets and goals is a key competency.
Several attributes of your personality can help deal with certain situations at work. The more you can acclimatize to changing conditions, the better employee you would become. Recruiters want candidates who can thrive in a culture of change and can continuously upgrade themselves in the way they work and think.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
It is, therefore, indispensable for all the candidates to upskill themselves for the future. These pressing times call for more flexibility, excellent communication skills combined with high emotional intelligence and an optimistic approach.
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Tags
Enhancing your communication skills can influence your career and take it to the next level of excellence. Your ability to communicate impacts efficiency, effectiveness and trustworthiness between you and your employer. It distinguishes you from others. It creates a brand YOU.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
17/10/2024
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
soft-skills
the
3. Creativity
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
In today’s volatile world, where business operations are changing rapidly, the power of soft skills has emerged as one of the few constants. The current COVID-19 catastrophe has altered the way recruiters are selecting the right candidate
5 skills top recruiters will seek in a professional post COVID-19
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
A workforce with high learning agility can learn from unfamiliar experiences and then implement those lessons to prosper in the next new situation. It starts with exploring something new, something beyond imagination. It helps people to know what to do when conventional solutions do not work. It is unleashing your true potential to get the desired results. It is all about facing challenges with novel strategies.
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
Robotics, as of now, cannot compete with humans on EI. The future workplace is going to demand new ways of thinking, and human creativity and EI will lead the way. The imminent scenario would demand inventiveness to recognize the benefits of all the new things for the future — new products, ways of working and technologies.
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
18/11/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
So, gear up, take the plunge, inculcate all the desired skills and make a mark for yourself by converting adversities into opportunities. Success will surely be yours.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
Employers want candidates to demonstrate that they can adapt to changing environments and are accepting of novel ideas.
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
5. Learning Agility
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Ekta Kashyap
Please enter last name
Creativity has always been the first choice for recruiters when it comes to attributes. Experimenting, learning to unlearn and thinking beyond the obvious help in developing the creativity quotient in you. Organizations would require employees who can design, redesign and challenge the status quo and invent new verticals and ways of doing things.
The ability to handle change with ease frees up the time one might spend stressing out when a new challenge presents itself. It makes you resourceful and a person with self-efficacy, who can turn adversity into opportunity.
2. Emotional Intelligence (EI)
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Here are the 5 most essential soft skills, which can pave the path for everlasting success:
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
25/10/2024
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Published 17/06/2020
Abhishek Verma
1. Adaptability
The writer is Abhishek Verma, Assistant Director, Career Services Team, UPES
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Last Name