Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Published 19/07/2022
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ aims at people’s upliftment, environment conservation, and providing food to needy and underprivileged children. ‘Youth Warriors’ as the name suggests, works toward making the youth capable of raising their voice against the wrongs done to them or anyone they are aware of. “We are educating them not to be a mute spectator if any unfortunate incident happens in front of them. We are making them warriors because today’s youth are the leaders of tomorrow. We want to build a healthy environment by creating awareness so that no individual is deprived of their rights,” says Ishanth.
For Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, the desire to study law stemmed from the drive to serve society. “I always aspired to give back to the community in the best way possible, and law seemed to be the correct choice for doing so,” he says. “Also, it is empowering to develop an expertise in the rules and regulations that govern us. Even though it is a challenging field, law enables us to understand how our society functions,” Ishanth adds.
Please enter first name
A team of geologists from the Energy Cluster, School of Advanced Engineering, at UPES Dehradun embarked on a comprehensive study to unravel the mystery behind the recent events in Joshimath and provide crucial insights for future mitigation and infrastructure development.
Mobile Number
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
Explaining how his foundations operate, Ishanth says, “We collect funds from people who want to donate. We regularly release fundraising posters through which people can easily reach out to us and donate. Also, the interns and the team work very hard in every way possible.”
By
the
Please Select Course Type
Ishanth Bansal
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
He has a strong team comprising his peers from UPES: Abhishek Singh, Graphic Head; Deveshi Gupta and Unnati, Editorial Heads; Gurusha Muniyal, Event Management Head; Ritoja Bannerjee and Yash Tiwari, Public Relations Heads; Sakshi Kabra, Operation Head; Utsav Tarsolia, Sub-Head; Vivek Chandrasekar, Secretary; Anirudh Malik, Chidambara Sharma, and Harsh Chawdhary, Members.
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
Please enter mobile number
Setting up a foundation, however, was in itself a challenge. “We had to be meticulous and steadfast in our goals. Everything falls into place if one is dedicated. Sure, we did not foresee some challenges before starting our project. We also had our doubts. Will it be a success, or will all the effort go in vain? Are we going in the right direction? Will it affect our studies? However, as we started working towards it, we got more clarity,” he says.
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Ishanth instituted two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ in 2019 and ‘Youth Warriors’ in 2021.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
UPES law student Ishanth Bansal with children supported by one of his NGOs
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Currently pursuing BBA LLB (H) with a specialisation in Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), social work appealed to him at a young age. However, it was the turbulent time of Covid-19 waves that pushed him to start working on the ground. “During the successive waves, I heard of families losing their loved ones because of not getting proper medical care. I realised that this was not merely about the pandemic. People’s health is directly related to their lifestyle — nutrition, physical activity, weight management, and restorative sleep. The circumstances that developed during those days – which included an economic as well as a health crisis – propelled me to begin working for people,” says Ishanth.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name