Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
Published 16/05/2023
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
According to a recent report published by Simiao Chen et al in February 2023 in JAMA Oncology [1, 2], the total cost of cancer to the global economy will reach USD 25.2 trillion between 2020 and 2050, based on an analysis of 29 cancers across 204 countries. The report estimated the costs of cancer using a value-of-life approach, which assigns a monetary value to each year of life lost due to cancer. This approach captures the socio-economic value of human life, rather than just the health care expenditures.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaoncology/fullarticle/2801798
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
The economic burden of cancer varies widely across regions and countries, depending on the incidence and mortality rates, the availability and affordability of health care services, and the level of economic development. According to another study by World Cancer Research Fund International [3], the highest economic impact of cancer in 2020 was in North America (USD 3.9 trillion), followed by Europe (USD 3.5 trillion), Asia (USD 3.1 trillion), Latin America and the Caribbean (USD 0.9 trillion), Africa (USD 0.4 trillion), and Oceania (USD 0.2 trillion).
Please enter email address
Implementing evidence-based policies and regulations to prevent exposure to carcinogens and promote healthy lifestyle behaviours.
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
https://canceratlas.cancer.org/taking-action/economic-burden/
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
*
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Strengthening health systems and improving access to affordable and quality cancer services across the continuum of care.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Mobilizing domestic and international resources and fostering multisectoral collaboration to finance and implement comprehensive cancer plans.
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Kreier F. Cancer will cost the world $25 trillion over next 30 years. Nature. 2023 Mar 7. doi: 10.1038/d41586-023-00634-9. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 36882543.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
The report found that five types of cancer will account for roughly half of the total cost: lung cancer (USD 7.6 trillion), colorectal cancer (USD 3.5 trillion), breast cancer (USD 3.4 trillion), prostate cancer (USD 2.8 trillion), and liver cancer (USD 2.4 trillion). These cancers are among the most common and deadly cancers worldwide, and are largely influenced by modifiable risk factors such as tobacco use, obesity, alcohol consumption, and infections [1, 2]. The report also projected that the cost of cancer will increase over time, as the global population grows and ages, and as more people adopt unhealthy lifestyles.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
School of Health Sciences and Technology
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
The study also found that high-income countries had a higher economic impact per case of cancer than low- and middle-income countries, reflecting the higher value-of-life estimates in richer countries. Whereas, in India, the cost of cancer treatment varies widely depending on the type of cancer, stage of cancer, and type of treatment required. However, cancer treatment can be expensive, and the cost of cancer treatment in India is often a significant burden for patients and their families. According to a study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in 2012, the average cost of cancer treatment for patients in India was approximately INR 1.6 lakhs for those who received treatment in public hospitals, and INR 5.6 lakhs for those who received treatment in private hospitals, whereas the cancer treatment cost has significantly increased in last few years in India from INR 1 lakh to several lakhs [4].
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for health systems and societies, especially in resource-limited settings where many people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services. Moreover, the economic impact of cancer can exacerbate poverty and inequality, as many people face catastrophic out-of-pocket expenses or lose their income due to cancer [5]. Therefore, investing in effective and equitable cancer interventions can not only save lives and improve health outcomes, but also reduce the economic burden of cancer and enhance social and economic development.
The writer is Dr. Dhruv Kumar, Professor, UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology
13/08/2024
To reduce the economic impact of cancer, several strategies are needed at global, national, and local levels. These include:
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
Global Cancer Observatory, World Health Organization/International Agency for Research on Cancer. Global cancer statistics for the most common cancers in the world. 23 March 2022.
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/spend/what-is-the-cost-of-treatment-of-cancer/articleshow/89364352.cms?from=mdr
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Governments have a role to play in addressing the economic impact of cancer by investing in cancer research and prevention programs, ensuring access to affordable cancer care, and implementing policies to support cancer patients and their families. At the local level, the economic impact of cancer is felt by communities, hospitals, and healthcare providers. Cancer treatment requires a multidisciplinary approach, involving various healthcare professionals, such as oncologists, surgeons, radiologists, and nurses. The cost of cancer treatment can strain local healthcare systems, and healthcare providers may struggle to provide quality care due to resource constraints. Addressing the economic impact of cancer at the local level requires a coordinated approach involving healthcare providers, policymakers, and community stakeholders.
Enhancing research and innovation to develop new technologies and methods for early detection, diagnosis, treatment, and care of cancer.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Monitoring and evaluating the costs and benefits of cancer interventions and ensuring accountability and transparency.
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
The Economic Burden of Cancer. The Cancer Atlas. Apr 2015.
Riju Mehta. What is the cost of treatment of cancer, Economictimes. Feb 10, 2022.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Increasing awareness and advocacy for cancer as a priority health and development issue.
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services. It can exacerbate poverty and inequality, as many people face catastrophic out-of-pocket expenses
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
By addressing the economic burden of cancer, we can not only improve the well-being of millions of people affected by cancer, but also contribute to achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and building a healthier, fairer, and more prosperous world for all.
https://www.wcrf.org/cancer-trends/worldwide-cancer-data/
Please select Course
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-00634-9
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Cancer is not just a health problem, but a huge economic burden for individuals, families, and societies around the globe. According to a report by the World Health Organization (WHO), cancer is the leading cause of deaths globally, accounting for more than 10 million deaths annually. The economic impact of cancer is felt at both the individual and societal levels. The economic impact of cancer includes the direct costs of diagnosis, treatment, and care, as well as the indirect costs of lost productivity, disability, and premature death. Understanding the economic burden of cancer can help inform policy decisions and resource allocation for cancer prevention and control.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Image credit: Pixabay
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
References:
Last Name
Chen S, Cao Z, Prettner K, Kuhn M, Yang J, Jiao L, Wang Z, Li W, Geldsetzer P, Bärnighausen T, Bloom DE, Wang C. Estimates and Projections of the Global Economic Cost of 29 Cancers in 204 Countries and Territories From 2020 to 2050. JAMA Oncol. 2023 Apr 1;9(4):465-472. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2022.7826. PMID: 36821107; PMCID: PMC9951101.