7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
Indian Aviation Outlook
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Indian Aviation envisions increasing the number of operational airports to 220 by 2025. Foreign investment of up to 49% is allowed under the automatic route in scheduled air transport service, regional air transport service, and domestic scheduled passenger airlines, which shall directly impact the market. Due to robust policies, and growing private sector participation through the Public Private Partnership (PPP), the number of PPP airports is expected to increase from five in 2014 to 24 by 2024-25.
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Airport Operations
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Passenger and Freight Trends
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Aviation management plays a crucial role in air traffic management to ensure the safe and efficient movement of aircraft on the ground as well as en route. Air Traffic Control (ATC) involves managing air traffic control systems, airspace utilisation, longitudinal or vertical aircraft separations, route planning, and coordination between pilots. Effective air traffic management minimises congestion, optimises flight paths, and reduces fuel consumption. ATC operations adhere  to a comprehensive set of rules and standards established by national and international aviation authorities, namely the International Civil Aviation Organisation and Director General of Civil Aviation.
Air Traffic Management
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
In FY24 (as of June 2023), airports in India reported the domestic passenger traffic of 76.73 million, a 19.1% YoY growth, and international passenger traffic of 16.24 million, a 35% YoY growth, over the same period last year. Moreover, the Government has set a target to operationalise 1,000 UDAN routes and to revive/develop 100 unserved and underserved airports/heliports/water aerodromes (including 68 aerodromes) by 2024.
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
The writer is Anmol Kumar, Assistant Professor, Energy and Transportation, UPES School Of Business
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
Anmol Kumar
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Published 29/01/2024
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Freight and Air Cargo Trends
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
Aviation management oversees the efficient functioning of airports, managing terminal operations, ground handling services, airport facilities, passenger flow management, baggage handling, air traffic control coordination, and airport infrastructure development. The aim is to provide a smooth and convenient experience for travellers while maintaining high levels of safety and security.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
In the dynamic world of modern air travel, the seamless operation of aviation systems relies heavily on the efficient management of various interconnected elements. Aviation management plays a pivotal role in modern air travel by ensuring the safe, reliable, and smooth operation of aerodromes. It encompasses the strategic and operational aspects of running an airline, involving tasks such as Airport Operations, Fleet Planning and Management, Airport Slots, Revenue Management, Security, Customer service, Cargo, Marketing, and Human Resource Management. Effective management ensures commitment to safety and compliance with international aviation regulations.
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
Aviation service operations and ground handling directly impact the passenger experience. From the moment passengers arrive at the airport until they reach their destination, these operations contribute to a seamless and enjoyable travel journey. Efficient check-in processes, smooth baggage handling, Customer/ Porter Service, and on-time departures enhance the overall passenger experience and satisfaction.
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Role of Aviation Management in Modern Air Travel
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
The Future of Aviation Management
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Happy Flying!!
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Examining Freight/Air Cargo traffic between FY16 and FY23, freight traffic increased at a CAGR of 2.20% from 2.70 MMT to 3.15 MMT. During April-June, freight traffic (International + Domestic) stood at 795.49 thousand tonnes (0.79 MMT). Freight traffic in airports in India has the potential to reach 17 MMT by FY40. Growth in import and export in India will be the key driver for growth in freight traffic as 30% of total trade is undertaken via airways. Delhi Airport received approval from the Government of India on February 7, 2023, allowing DIAL to serve as a Cargo Transshipment hub between Bangladesh and other global destinations for export cargo. Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), a subsidiary of GMR Airports Infrastructure Limited, on March 3, 2023, welcomed the first batch of transshipment cargo from Bangladesh, paving the way for a faster and cost-effective route for shipping export cargo internationally. In May 2023, Union Civil Aviation Minister Mr. Jyotiraditya Scindia stated that there is a plan to invest Rs. 1 lakh crore (US$ 12 billion) in airports in the coming days which shall open many new opportunities and provide youth with good career growth.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
As far as airlines are concerned, in terms of demand capacity and utilisation, the available seat kilometre in domestic flights increased to 158,349 million km in FY23. Correspondingly, (Revenue Passenger Kilometre) for Domestic Service rapidly grew to 132,092 million km in FY23. India has become the third largest domestic aviation market in the world and is expected to overtake the UK to become the third largest air passenger market by 2024. Due to the dynamic aviation market, India is projected to have 480 million flyers by 2026, exceeding the combines numbers of Japan and Germany constituting to 225 million and 200 million, respectively.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Unquestionably, aviation management plays a crucial role in contemporary air travel, serving as the compass that directs the complex dance of many components within the aviation sector. Aviation management is an engine, driving air travel into the future. It achieves this by adopting cutting-edge technologies, improving flight operations, assuring strict safety standards, and managing unanticipated obstacles. Aviation managers’ unrelenting dedication to safety, efficiency, and adaptation as the skies change will pave the way for the miracles of flight to become more than just a mode of transportation but also a monument to human creativity and teamwork. Aviation management is the keeper of the skies in this dynamic and constantly shifting environment, ensuring that flying through the clouds is Seamless, Smooth, Safe, and Exciting.
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name