, has stepped up and adapted its pedagogy to prepare students for future workplaces.
The NMIMS Programs After Twelfth (NPAT) exam is one of India’s most prestigious entrance tests, providing students with an opportunity to secure admission to Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS).
+91
4. If you have a laptop but suspect that uninterrupted internet connectivity is questionable in your area, it is recommended that you use your phone’s hotspot to provide either a primary or a backup connection to your laptop.
First Name
Are you planning to study in any prestigious law schools of US, Canada and other major countries? Gear yourself up for the LSAT India 2025!
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
VITEEE is an online entrance exam conducted by VIT for admission to its undergraduate engineering programs across its campuses in Vellore, Chennai, Bhopal, and Amaravati.
Best CLAT Books & Study Resources
No Negative Marking
Course Type
3. Students are required to ensure that both Webcam and Microphone are working properly
Please enter email address
UPES School of Business teaches students about ways to cope with the new market dynamics and be armed with the knowledge of emerging trends such as Big Data, Analytics, and the Internet of Things (IoT), among other things. The university prepares students for working in a mega-corporation as well as a start-up environment and assists them in commencing their entrepreneurial journey. Additionally, collaborations with business leaders such as IBM, BSE, Aerotech, Tata Power, and ESSAR Oil provide insights, which are vital in making the curriculum industry-aligned. UPES School of Business trains its students to stay abreast with the dynamic business environment, such that they walk out of the B-school campus with the right attitude and the skill set to handle the contemporary business challenges and market volatilities efficiently.
Mansha Dhingra
6. Students are advised to use the same Desktop/Laptop/Phone which is used for mock test for the actual exam so that any issues faced will have been experienced and resolved in the System-Check Testck test for the actual exam so that any issues faced will have been experienced and resolved in the System-Check Test
*
How to Prepare for AEEE?
Published 04/04/2021
5. Google Chrome browser (latest version) must be installed in Laptop/Desktop/Phone.
35
Online Exam
Mechanical engineering, one of the oldest and most versatile engineering disciplines, offers a broad spectrum of subjects and specializations.
CUET Exam Preparation
UPES also gives the applicants the liberty to appear for UPESMET online from their place of choice. For this, students would only need a desktop or laptop with a webcam and a good internet connection. It is a centrally proctored test that can be taken as per the candidate’s convenience by logging in at a specific time window.
Trending Post
UPESMET is a centralized university entrance examination for all aspirants to take admission in any of the management courses
UPESMET Scheme of Test
upesmet
List of Top Engineering Entrance Exam in India
How Many Attempts for JEE Mains 2025? A Complete Guide
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Preparing for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) is a crucial step for aspiring lawyers aiming to secure admission to premier law schools in India.
The Common University Entrance Test (CUET) is more than just an entrance exam; it's a gateway to some of the most prestigious universities in India, including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, and several others.
LSAT for Law Students- Dates, Syllabus, Exam Pattern, Fees, Mock Tests
Tags
MBA entrance exam eligibility
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
How to Prepare for NPAT?
By
the
Meet Rohan. Like many high school students, he dreamt of building a successful career in business. He had always been fascinated by the world of finance, entrepreneurship, and how companies make strategic decisions.
UPES Management Entrance Test (UPESMET) 2021
Other important information
1. Students can write their examinations by using their Laptop / Desktop at a specified time. Webcam connectivity is a must during the examination.
Please Select Course Type
Quantitative: Data Interpretation and Data Sufficiency
Are you a fan of the black robes, court settings, and legal verbiage?
A subscriber email already exists.
Very soon we’ll have the JEE Exam knocking on our doors! Some will break those doors to enter colleges of their dreams while some will continue to stand still.
JEE Exam happens to be India’s one of the Toughest and one of the most aspired exams to crack! It opens doors to India’s finest engineering colleges and helps student receive world class pedagogy and exposure to improve and build their character.
General English: Reading Comprehension, Verbal Reasoning, Verbal Ability
VITEEE: How to Prepare for the VITEEE Exam?
Do you aspire to become a lawyer? Do you wish with all your heart, to pursue law? Let us acquaint you with another All-India Exam which can help you realise you this dream of yours.
No. Of Questions
Please enter mobile number
If you dream of getting into an engineering program at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University, the gateway to your aspirations lies through AEEE (Amrita Engineering Entrance Exam).
JEE Mains vs JEE Advanced - Differences, Pattern, Syllabus 2025
UPES School of Business
Total No. of Questions
-- None --
Engineering remains one of the most sought-after career paths in India, with various entrance exams serving as the gateway to premier engineering institutions.
--None--
Last date to Apply
List of Subjects, Specializations and Entrance Exam in Mechanical Engineering
Eligibility Criteria of UPES Management Entrance Test
Under the
UPES Editorial Team
Analytical and Logical Reasoning
Sections
Please enter last name
Organisations today require managers who possess pragmatic decision-making abilities and skills to comprehend and analyse large amounts of information and develop sound business strategies. Disruptive technologies are changing the way people think and operate. Therefore, businesses must adapt to this paradigm shift for survival and expansion. A decade ago, companies reacted according to the demands of the consumer. Today, companies can predict the demands of consumers based on the data generated by them on the Internet. Given the scenario,
– 12th August, 2021
UPES School of Business, Dehradun
UPESMET is a centralized university entrance examination for all aspirants to take admission in any of the management courses.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Test Window – 10:00 AM – 2:00 PM
General Awareness: General Knowledge, Current Affairs, Business Scenario
How to Crack JEE Exam: Important Tips & Tricks You Should Know
SLAT Exam: How to Prepare, Exam Date, Registration, Syllabus, Mock Test 2025
MBA entrance exam 2020
2. Check ‘System Specification’ document and install Mobile App/SAB tool
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
140
CLAT- How to Prepare for the Law Exam?
LL.B. to Judiciary: A Guide to Preparing for Judicial Services Exams
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
, the candidates who have applied must procure a minimum of 50% marks in Higher and Senior Secondary level (10th and 12th). Along with this, the candidate should also have 50% marks at the graduation level from a reputable university. The students who meet these criteria can undertake the UPES Management Entrance Test (UPESMET) 2021.
Students can write their examinations by using their Laptop / Desktop at a specified time. Webcam connectivity is a must during the examination.
How to Prepare for BBA Entrance Exams: A Journey to Success
Guidelines before the assessment
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains is one of the most competitive exams in India, opening doors to prestigious engineering colleges like the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and eligibility for the JEE Advanced for admissions into the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).
Related Articles
– 14th August, 2021
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
2 hours
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Multiple Choice Questions
1 Mark Each
UPESMET Exam (B.Des & M.Des)
Last Name