+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
Digitisation of Process Technology
Among the top careers for chemical engineers is that of an analytical chemist. Analysing the chemical characteristics of items as well as identifying and quantifying chemical compounds are tasks that analytical chemists perform. To analyse and interpret data, you will employ a variety of methods such as mass spectrometry, spectroscopy, and chromatography. Pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, environmental testing, and forensic science are just a few of the businesses that employ analytical chemists. This makes it a fantastic option for your mechanical engineering career.
The B.Tech. Chemical Engineering (Energy Systems & Storage) program is a cutting-edge undergraduate degree which provides you with comprehensive knowledge and skills in the field of chemical engineering with a specialised focus on energy systems and storage technologies. The program's duration is typically 4 years, during which you will be exposed to a rigorous curriculum that combines theoretical learning, practical training, and research opportunities.
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
These experts assess, create, and manufacture procedures related to oil and gas extraction and production. They frequently study hydrocarbons and maximise gas and oil output. In addition to working with other engineers and field scientists, petroleum engineers can create novel drilling methods and investigate ways to lessen their impact on the environment. In addition, they oversee well sites and operations, interact with contractors, and perform equipment maintenance and repairs.
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Career Opportunities in Chemical Engineering
Conclusion
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Embarking on a B.Tech. in Chemical Engineering opens doors to a world of possibilities. Whether you're passionate about designing processes, preserving the environment, or pushing the boundaries of material science, a degree in chemical engineering sets you on a path to a rewarding and impactful career. So, buckle up and get ready to transform molecules into a bright future!
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Energy Engineers:
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
What is Chemical Engineering?
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
Refining and Petrochemicals
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors. Today, it's one of the hottest engineering fields, boasting exponential growth and cutting-edge applications across a spectrum of industries. From pharmaceuticals and food processing to nanotechnology and environmental remediation, the demand for skilled chemical engineers is booming.
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
You can gain a thorough understanding of chemical engineering concepts and state-of-the-art digital technologies by enrolling in the B. Tech. Chemical Engineering programme with a specialisation in Digitalization of Process Technology. To prepare you for the changing industrial landscape, this programme combines conventional chemical engineering concepts with the most recent developments in digitalization, automation, and data analytics
Published 05/07/2024
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
When it comes to the production and use of energy systems like wind and solar, energy engineers conduct research, design, and implementation of energy solutions. They might oversee buildings or plants, conduct research on sustainable and alternative energy sources, lower energy expenses, and monitor job sites. Energy engineers are also capable of designing machinery, carrying out lab tests, and setting up new technologies like wind turbines at new locations.
26/07/2024
Petroleum Engineer:
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
The goal of the B. Tech. Chemical Engineering (Refining & Petrochemicals) programme is to provide you with extensive knowledge and abilities in the fast-paced industry of petrochemicals and refining. Presently, India’s chemical and petrochemical (CPC) industry holds a significant position in the world market, worth 178 billion USD, and it is expected to grow to about 300 billion USD by 2025.   This programme is designed to shape you into a professional who is ready for the industry. Refining technologies, petrochemical processing, specialty chemicals, data analytics in the chemical sector, and bio refineries are just a few of the topics that are covered in the program.
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
Energy System and Storage
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Specialisations in Chemical Engineering
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Data Analysts:
B. Tech. Chemical Engineering program is designed to equip you with a comprehensive understanding of chemical processes and equipment, making them versatile professionals in the industry. It is a 4-year undergraduate degree, which focuses on building a foundation for thermodynamics, mass transfer, fluid mechanics, reaction engineering and heat transfer.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Process engineers optimise production while reducing waste in industrial and chemical operations. They might evaluate a process's efficacy, rethink its parameters or procedures, and update or replace its equipment. Along with lowering expenses for factories, warehouses, or plants, process engineers can also devise strategies to reuse waste and converse with other staff members about process methods.
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Chemical engineering is the area of engineering that uses the sciences of chemistry, physics, and biology to transform chemicals or raw materials into useful forms. It's the art of turning molecules into money, as they say in the industry. From designing processes to optimising production, chemical engineers play a crucial role in various sectors.
Related Articles
But amidst this vast and ever-evolving landscape, finding your perfect career fit can seem daunting. That's where this blog comes in. We'll be your trusty guide, helping you navigate the exciting world of chemical engineering and unveil the path that aligns perfectly with your passions and aspirations. In this blog, we will talk in-depth about chemical engineers and understand the factors like its eligibility, specialisation along with career opportunities.
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
Chemical Process Engineer:
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?