+91
AI and robotics will reboot the world and make our daily life much more efficient, seamless and address many needs, over the next two decades. But can technology really replace human creativity and talent? Not really. A good product design can certainly address many user needs and assist in classroom teaching and even beyond, but it cannot replace an educator or faculty. Therefore, it’s important to remember that while designers may be designing intelligent products, systems, deliverables, services and much more, it’s equally important to pause and dwell on the unanticipated impacts.
Who is to blame:
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
What’s Next for Product Designers as Changemakers
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
A multi-talented innovator who wears multiple hats. He essays the role of an entrepreneur by studying market trends, bringing visions to life, undertaking competitive research, mastering visual design, understanding what people want, and evaluating data with experience.
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
While designers can anticipate the future fallouts and possible scenarios of their products, it’s important to draft fluid laws and regulations with a futuristic lens. But governments should also be prepared to have a regulatory framework that takes decisions based on the changing dynamics and market headwinds.
The writer is Manas Ranjan Mishra, Professor, Industrial and Product Design, UPES School of Design
During the pandemic and thereafter, technology acceleration has reimagined many possibilities, employment opportunities, pedagogies and even disrupted assessments, employment, and industry trends. In the next few years, these changes will continue to manifest and realign human needs as per the changing dynamics of the world around us. Let’s explore some possibilities that Product Designers can expect.
Trending Post
Responsible Product Design:
In the current scenario, there’s an understandable pressure to be more creative and efficient, create a product that is a success and have a faster product cycle using the latest design tools. Technological support in product design has helped but it has also raised some very important and critical questions that need to be addressed.
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Responsible design generates customer and market trust and improves profits. Against the backdrop of the developments mentioned above, future designers must consider all aspects from an impact perspective — both positive and negative — while designing a product. People do make mistakes. That’s why the ‘fail safe’ feature, which addresses scenarios like malfunctioning in certain situations, damage possibilities and other negative scenarios, is fed into products. These not only keep the users safe but also addresses unintentional flaws that may arise. But what if something serious arises? It’s a collective responsibility of the designer, manufacturer, industry, government, and other stakeholders and they ‘learn to learn’ to keep abreast of the changes around them.
Today, the journey of a Product Designer is not just about inspiration or creation alone, rather it’s about transforming into the champions of change who will drive our tomorrow. That’s why the above example displays how technology has further elevated the ‘Design Thinking’ concept. It is anticipating the future and the need for a user with an ‘intelligent’ product design that is comprehensive and open to more modification when needed.
Typically rules and regulations are made to redress anything that goes haywire or in the negative domain. What would anyone do if a creation goes haywire on its own? Take the case of Bing’s chatbot which created a future after it threatened to disrupt the life of a journalist interviewing it, causing mayhem, and sparking a restricted interaction feature. This requires collective brainstorming by all the stakeholders.
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
Reimaging laws in VUCA world and legal reboot:
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
What does it mean to be a Product Designer?
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
Last Name
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
Published 18/08/2023
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments. This portable and lightweight product promotes water conservation by using significantly less water and electricity compared to conventional machines. It uses less water, and detergent and uses combined gentle agitation and water flow to clean clothes effectively. It can also be used at high altitudes where heavy snow or water scarcity is an issue. Future iterations of the product could incorporate features like water recycling systems, snow melting capabilities, or compatibility with alternative water sources to address the unique challenges faced in high-altitude environments. UPES has applied for a patent on this product.
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
Many times, consumers are unable to fully articulate their needs and skilled product designers must anticipate and understand their emotions and needs to deliver products that align with the best possible positive outcome. Therefore, intent, actions, and values matter. For example, Apple’s recent feature, that replicates the voice of a loved one, is a great emotional support. But it can also be misused by anti-social elements for their own ends. Therefore, when such transformative features or products are designed, there should be parallel alternatives for redressal and enforcement, and product designers should take responsibility for both success and failure to plug in any loopholes.
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
A Peek into the Future
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
The design allows a better understanding of what people want, improves efficiency, and productivity and boosts cost-reduction in businesses. Product Design can have solutions to many real-world problems like accessible and equitable access to resources, healthcare, environmental and sustainability challenges, political and socio-economic issues, education and much more. With so many changes around us, product designers hold the key to not just our collective future but that of the planet itself. That’s why, in my opinion, this inspirational and creative journey of a student from a product designer to a future changemaker is the need of the hour.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
Emotions as responsible action:
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Manas Ranjan Mishra