+91
In December 1993, the World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Another critical issue, Professor Suresh points out, is the liberal use of the word ‘Citizen Journalism’. “It is simply unacceptable,” he elaborates, “as using the term ‘Citizen Doctor’ or ‘Citizen Engineer’. A journalist is required to have certain skillsets, which include not just technological inputs, but also an adherence to certain ethical standards. There are media laws in place, which need to be understood. So, any Tom, Dick and Harry cannot be practising journalism. He should have certain qualifications and qualities to become a journalist. One can be a citizen communicator, but a citizen journalist, no.”
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Media is considered the fourth pillar of democracy. Such is the power of journalism that it has brought down corrupt governments (the RickyLeaks expose in Puerto Rico, which ousted Governor Ricardo Rosselló in July 2019, for instance) and revealed the unfathomable realities of the plight of people from the most dangerous warzones (such as the visualisation of the scale of destruction in Syria). Journalism is, in fact, a check on the power of governments, corporates, institutions and organizations that run the world machinery.
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
In December 1993, the World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly, following the recommendation of UNESCO’s General Conference. Since then, May 3 is celebrated worldwide as World Press Freedom Day, to coincide with the anniversary of the Declaration of Windhoek – a statement of free press principles collated by newspaper journalists in Africa during a UNESCO seminar called ‘Promoting an Independent and Pluralistic African Press’, in Windhoek, Namibia, in 1991.
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
Along with the global health pandemic, the world is also grappling with an equally, if not more, dangerous ‘infodemic’ i.e. the massive circulation of fake content. “It is creating chaos and confusion, leading to law and order issues. So, it is important to ensure that fake content is checked at every level possible.”
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
modern media
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
“At the end of the day, it is about journalism without fear or favour. There is a need to ensure that the journalists are protected and safe,” he concludes.
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Imagine blank news channel screens, no newspapers and no news feeds on the internet or the radio. What would a world without access to news be like? Is it even possible to have a meaningful existence without information and communication?
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Today, journalists are dealing with another life threat, the novel Coronavirus. Yet, they are leading from the front. Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” says Professor KG Suresh, a senior journalist and communication specialist, currently serving as Dean, UPES School of Modern Media.
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
upes school of modern media
13/08/2024
Published 03/05/2020
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Though Professor Suresh does not believe in the concept of ‘fake news’. “For the simple reason that it is an oxymoron: if it is fake, it cannot be news and if it is news, it cannot be fake. So, let us have a consensus on using the term ‘fake content’. Because news is a refined product. It is only after going through all the checks and balances, verification and cross-verification, evidence-based research, that a piece of information is turned into a news format,” he informs.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Reiterating the need to safeguard the interest of the journalists, who have put their life at risk in these unprecedented times, Professor Suresh says that governments and media organisations must do everything possible to protect them. “We are concerned about layoffs, leaves without pay and retrenchment in the industry. Media is the moulder of public opinion and media houses need to realise that the society looks up to them. They will have to support and stand by their journalists at this critical juncture. The governments, too, need to take steps such as giving the journalist insurance cover and utilising the ‘Journalist Welfare Fund’ under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in the interest of those who have lost their jobs.”
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
In their line of duty, journalists have always been the frontline warriors. However, in the current times, media is bombarded with a litany of complaints such as ‘selling’ profit-making stories and in the process throwing critical journalism in the backseat. If the credible stories are inconvenient to the power-players, media persons are often hounded, abused and threatened. Nevertheless, we have examples of exceptional journalists who refuse to be afraid and silenced.
Which is why, the theme of this year’s World Press Freedom Day – Journalism Without Fear or Favour – could not have been more relevant.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024