Food start-up incubated at UPES seeks to empower local communities
Diana George
Global Exposure
Blog
A diet trend that promotes health and longevity
View less
PensionBox, a startup founded by UPES alumnus, offers an innovative pathway to securing financial independence for individuals in their golden years.
+91
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
03/09/2024
Secured an All India Rank – 2 in in the order of merit in Computer Science Engineering for Technical Graduate Course -132 entry of Indian Army
Academic Excellence
Kama Choudhary
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
Placements
Exams
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Please enter first name
Email Address
Please enter mobile number
Showing items
UPES alumni show their prowess with avant-garde automotive designs
Mobile Number
Is intermittent fasting a step towards a healthier lifestyle? It is generally safe and does not result in energy level disturbances or increased disordered eating behaviours.
UPES alumnus revolutionises retirement planning with PensionBox
Have a design-related question? This prof has all the answers
-- None --
Submit
Course Type
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
--None--
Please select Course
School of UPES Star
Please enter email address
the
Two of the brightest minds from UPES School of Design are making waves in their chosen profession and using cutting-edge technology to design futuristic automobile designs
Life at Campus
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
19/09/2024
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
Latest Articles
Sports scholarships motivate athletes: CWG silver medallist and UPES alumnus Navneet Singh
Featured Posts
What should students entering the field of design must know? How has the industry changed over the years?
Download the Brochure
EduSpeak
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
privacy policy
View all
*
Upes Star
A subscriber email already exists.
Big sporting feats at UPES in 2022
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
test_user
What if cracks could self-repair and prevent aircraft accidents? A researcher is making this possible
13/08/2024
Entrepreneurship
UPES provided opportunities for holistic development; proud to join the Indian Army
Last Name