Blog
The NMIMS Programs After Twelfth (NPAT) exam is one of India’s most prestigious entrance tests, providing students with an opportunity to secure admission to Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS).
+91
First Name
Are you planning to study in any prestigious law schools of US, Canada and other major countries? Gear yourself up for the LSAT India 2025!
Academic Excellence
Exams
VITEEE is an online entrance exam conducted by VIT for admission to its undergraduate engineering programs across its campuses in Vellore, Chennai, Bhopal, and Amaravati.
Best CLAT Books & Study Resources
Course Type
11/02/2025
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
*
EduSpeak
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
View all
How to Prepare for AEEE?
Entrepreneurship
Mechanical engineering, one of the oldest and most versatile engineering disciplines, offers a broad spectrum of subjects and specializations.
CUET Exam Preparation
List of Top Engineering Entrance Exam in India
How Many Attempts for JEE Mains 2025? A Complete Guide
Placements
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Preparing for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) is a crucial step for aspiring lawyers aiming to secure admission to premier law schools in India.
13/02/2025
LSAT for Law Students- Dates, Syllabus, Exam Pattern, Fees, Mock Tests
The Common University Entrance Test (CUET) is more than just an entrance exam; it's a gateway to some of the most prestigious universities in India, including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, and several others.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
How to Prepare for NPAT?
the
UPES Management Entrance Test (UPESMET) 2021
Please Select Course Type
Latest Articles
Download the Brochure
Featured Posts
Are you a fan of the black robes, court settings, and legal verbiage?
A subscriber email already exists.
JEE Exam happens to be India’s one of the Toughest and one of the most aspired exams to crack! It opens doors to India’s finest engineering colleges and helps student receive world class pedagogy and exposure to improve and build their character.
VITEEE: How to Prepare for the VITEEE Exam?
Do you aspire to become a lawyer? Do you wish with all your heart, to pursue law? Let us acquaint you with another All-India Exam which can help you realise you this dream of yours.
View less
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
If you dream of getting into an engineering program at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University, the gateway to your aspirations lies through AEEE (Amrita Engineering Entrance Exam).
Please enter mobile number
JEE Mains vs JEE Advanced - Differences, Pattern, Syllabus 2025
Showing items
-- None --
--None--
UPES Star
List of Subjects, Specializations and Entrance Exam in Mechanical Engineering
UPES Editorial Team
Please enter last name
12/02/2025
Global Exposure
How to Crack JEE Exam: Important Tips & Tricks You Should Know
SLAT Exam: How to Prepare, Exam Date, Registration, Syllabus, Mock Test 2025
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
LL.B. to Judiciary: A Guide to Preparing for Judicial Services Exams
CLAT- How to Prepare for the Law Exam?
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
School of Exams
How to Prepare for BBA Entrance Exams: A Journey to Success
Please select Course
The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains is one of the most competitive exams in India, opening doors to prestigious engineering colleges like the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and eligibility for the JEE Advanced for admissions into the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).
Life at Campus
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name