In Slovenia, very few people could talk in English and usually spoke the Slovene language. Therefore, I had to learn the basics of their language to be able to connect effectively. My roommate was Turkish, so he also taught me his native language. In the welcome week, we had an event called ‘Polyglot’, where we had a group of five people and we had to converse, but not in English. There, I learned some phrases of French, Dutch, Spanish and German.
During this exchange program, I tried a lot of European dishes. As eating bread daily was a challenge, so I tried my hands at cooking as well. While travelling to nearby countries, I made sure to relish their sweet dishes and local specialities. There was an event called ‘International Dinner’ in our welcome week, where everyone made something from their mothers’ cookbook. I tried almost 20 different dishes for the first time. Since I was staying in a dorm, where every floor had a common kitchen, we all used to cook together.
Diana George
Published 04/06/2020
Trending Post
Select Course
international exchange program
UPES hosts over 60 exchange students from 27 different countries and the event was organised to celebrate the cultural diversity on campus and help foster unity through the medium of food
+91
The writer is Pranav Khalikar, student, MBA Logistics and Supply Chain Management, UPES School of Business (2018-20)
Mexico’s Carlota to Gambia’s Chu Yassa: Campus celebrates diversity with global culinary feast
What is the Difference Between a Software Engineer and a Software Developer?
I met students from 43 different nationalities with totally different cultural, educational and financial backgrounds
student exchange program
Software engineer and developer are two interrelated terms and many people would think there is no difference between the two.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
First Name
in 2018. When I got the opportunity in September 2019, I chose the University of Maribor, Slovenia, because of its special courses. Slovenia is situated almost at the centre of Europe and touches upon the borders of four European countries: Austria, Italy, Croatia and Hungary.
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Participating in a student exchange program brings a comprehensive change in one’s life. It is a challenging, liberating, fun and incredibly rewarding adventure to be on an international exchange program in Europe. You get a myriad of opportunities to learn and evolve personally as well as professionally.
UPES offers ample opportunities for students to experience and develop a global outlook. The Department of International Affairs at UPES has meticulously chalked out avenues through which students get international exposure
Email Address
Mobile Number
1. It boosts your confidence
Tags
6. Enhances your employability
-- None --
Submit
6 ways a student exchange program can help you in your career
4. Chance to learn new languages
5. Exposure to global cuisines
--None--
Please select Course
MBA Logistics and Supply Chain Management at UPES
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
Subscribe
Course Type
The student exchange program was an incredible and memorable experience
Pranav Khalikar
By a Correspondent
Here are the 6 ways a student exchange program can add value to your life:
I had always been a protected child, hence, never did anything adventurous. So, to gain the confidence I wanted to step out of my comfort zone. During the exchange program, I learned a lot – starting from managing international travel to lodging/boarding in an alien country. This made me self-reliant and helped me gain the ability to confront changing environments around me. I learnt to overcome new challenges.
Related Articles
Syed Mohd Raza Taqvi
By
Please enter email address
3. Opportunity to travel and explore
The best part of studying in Europe is you get borderless travel options within 44 countries of the European Union. I received coupons from my host university, which enabled me to book tickets for travel and stay in countries with discounted prices so that I could save more and travel more. I went to 20 famous and some unseen cities in 11 different countries of the continent. For me, this was an achievement.
the
A mention about exchange programs in your CV increases your employability factor. Recruiters are aware of how such programs groom an individual and are a reflection of the candidate’s qualities such as confidence, leadership, risk-taking ability and sustainability. This shows that you are open to new experiences and you can adapt to any situation.
My class at Berkeley Haas had students from all 7 continents of the world
Why gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A student exchange program is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, which transforms your academic future. It makes you self-reliant and enhances the prospects of your employability
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
The student exchange program was an incredible and memorable experience. I am glad that I got this opportunity that helped shape my future. If you too get an option like this, do not miss it.
Please Select Course Type
The best part of studying in Europe is you get borderless travel options within 44 countries of the European Union
*
During this exchange program
privacy policy
, I met students from 43 different nationalities with totally different cultural, educational and financial backgrounds. I never restricted myself to only one group and made new friends, who, in the later stage of the program, helped me whenever I was in need. Their endless energy inspired me to try different activities.
A subscriber email already exists.
I had always aspired to be a part of an international student exchange program since the day I joined
Please enter last name
2. You get to meet new people
Last Name
Some highlights of my journey at Berkeley Haas Global Access Program and the transformative impact it has had on my personal and professional growth