+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
product design
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
As said by German Industrial Designer Dieter Rams, “Good design is as little design as possible”. Therefore, simplicity plays a vital role in product design as much in life. Crafting something simple and functional allows people to immediately understand what the product does and how they can use it. A good product designer must always showcase aesthetic ability, functionality and instinctive simplicity. Without simplicity, a product will never be able to attract consumers.
Mansha Dhingra
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
Aesthetically relevant:
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Products should offer something new and revolutionary to connect with the consumers. A better-looking product will win over the users immediately. Product designers should focus on the desires of end-users, business goals and the available technology to develop an innovative product.
Trending Post
Aesthetics plays an important role in the future of product design. It brings up a positive attitude in the users. The product needs to be functional and easy-to-use while at the same time it should possess aesthetic power. This is because people want products that do wonders, while not looking ugly. Imagine all the Apple fans. The same goes for digital products such as software, apps or websites. A designer who wants to keep improving and developing skills should never miss out on aesthetic sense.
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Tags
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
Simplicity:
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
UPES School of Design
26/07/2024
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Product design is an essential part of developing an idea into a viable, marketable product. It involves creating new products or refinement of existing designs to improve the functionality, performance and appeal. It also entails checking the design, eliminating flaws and planning towards making a better product.
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
UPES Editorial Team
Utility is the foundation of customer needs. The first thing that a buyer considers while evaluating a product is whether it satisfies his or her needs or not. A product can be successful only if it ensures market acceptance and usefulness. Every component of the design should be able to serve a valuable purpose. Any aspect of design that is not beneficial to the user can detract from the user experience of the product.
Published 12/01/2021
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
Innovative:
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Utility:
Email Address
Product designers should have a sharp business mind, a strong eye for aesthetic appeal, and the ability to analyse feedback.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Good product design never goes out of style. Good design is timeless, and if a product is well-designed, it will last for long. Long-lasting and sustainable products are more valuable, better for the planet, and are a testament to the skills of the designer. Antiques, vintage clothing, old cars — these things are still with us today because the people who designed them built them to last.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Longevity:
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name
Here are some key aspects to keep in mind while designing a product.