7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Designed for working professionals, an executive MBA is up to 24 months.
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
Graduates often pursue roles in management consulting, finance, marketing, operations, and technology.
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
+91
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
Mode of Teaching
15/10/2024
Full-time programs involve a traditional classroom setting with a mix of lectures, group projects, internships, and networking events. Part-time and online options are also available.
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
First Name
Aimed at early to mid-career professionals or recent graduates looking to build foundational business skills or make a career switch.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
1.
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Parameters
: If you need to balance work and study, an EMBA offers a more flexible schedule.
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
24/10/2024
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
Eligibility
21/11/2024
Course Type
EMBA programs, conversely, bring together experienced executives, offering a peer-driven learning experience with a focus on real-world challenges and solutions.
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
2
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
1.Which is better, an MBA or an Executive MBA?
MBA
Keeping these differences in mind, one can decide which program is more suitable for oneself.
. Time Commitment
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Conclusion
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Part-time or weekend commitment
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Fees vary widely depending on the institution, ranging from $20,000 to over $100,000. Scholarships and financial aid are often available.
Trending Post
provides advanced leadership training while allowing you to continue working.
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
Differences Between MBA and Executive MBA
Usually more expensive due to the program’s specialized nature, with costs ranging from $50,000 to over $200,000. Companies sometimes sponsor employees.
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
Career & Job Prospects
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Graduates can expect starting salaries between $80,000 to $120,000, depending on prior experience, location, and industry.
Submit
Typically requires a bachelor’s degree. Work experience requirements vary
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
For seasoned professionals with a strong career trajectory, an
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
While there are similarities between the two programs, there are substantial differences too! Here’s a list of differences to help clear your concepts:
FAQs
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
Graduates are well-positioned for C-suite roles such as Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Operating Officer (COO), or senior consultant positions.
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
Both MBA and Executive MBA programs focus on developing leadership, strategic thinking, and critical decision-making skills. Key areas of study often include finance, marketing, operations, and human resources, providing a comprehensive understanding of business fundamentals. Additionally, both programs typically offer networking opportunities, industry-specific workshops, and career support services, designed to open doors to new professional paths.
Duration
26/07/2024
Often follows a flexible schedule with classes on weekends or evenings. Programs may include online components, interactive workshops, and peer-driven discussions.
“Focus on Options, not issues, and you’ll be able to handle any situation life throws at you.”
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Graduates often see higher starting salaries, typically ranging from $120,000 to over $200,000, with roles that include senior management positions.
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Similarities Between MBA and Executive MBA
Josh Kaufman,
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
2. What is the duration of an Executive MBA?
The Personal MBA: Master the Art of Business
Please enter mobile number
3. Learning Environment
If you’re early in your career or seeking a substantial career change, an
UPES School of Business
Full-time commitment
04/10/2024
-- None --
How to Choose Between an MBA and Executive MBA?
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees. Although the goals of both programs are to improve leadership abilities, business acumen, and career prospects, their structure, target audience, and results are very different. Here, we'll examine the parallels and discrepancies between an MBA and an EMBA, as well as elements like expected salaries and how to pick the best one for your professional goals.
MBA programs offer diverse classrooms with students from varied backgrounds, fostering a collaborative and broad-based learning environment.
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
Your hobbies, industry demands and professional aspirations will all influence which MBA specialization is best for you. Finance, marketing, entrepreneurship, and healthcare management are among the most popular specialties. Making an informed choice can be aided by researching market trends and matching your area of expertise with your desired career path.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
Fee
In conclusion, both MBA and Executive MBA programs offer valuable opportunities for career advancement, but they cater to different needs and career stages. If you're an early-career professional seeking a comprehensive business education and the flexibility to switch industries, an MBA might be the right choice. On the other hand, if you’re a seasoned executive aiming to refine your leadership skills while maintaining your current role, an Executive MBA offers the strategic focus and flexible structure to accommodate your busy schedule. Ultimately, your decision should align with your career aspirations, learning preferences, and professional experience. To explore further and find the program that best fits your goals, consider the offerings at the
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Between 1 to 2 years for full-time programs. Part-time MBAs can take up to 3 years.
The answer to this question is determined by the career stage you are in. If you are a fresher with no experience, straight out of college, or someone with 1-2 years of job experience looking to upskill and upgrade, an MBA is the right option for you. If you are a senior professional, with work experience of more than 2 years, looking to upgrade your leadership skills and grab some lucrative positions and promotions, an EMBA is the right fit for you.
Published 13/11/2024
Curriculum
Focuses on high-level strategic management and leadership. The curriculum is more geared towards real-world challenges, often with a global business perspective and case studies relevant to executives.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Career Stage
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
A typical MBA is a full-time program of two years duration that covers a variety of business management topics, including supply chain management, marketing, operations, international business, and finance. The goal of the course is to give you excellent administrative and management skills that will enable you to oversee various business activities and promote company expansion.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
: Ideal for those who can afford to take time off work and immerse themselves fully.
24/01/2025
Requires significant managerial or executive experience, often between 5 to 10 years.
Salary
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Generally takes between 1 to 2 years, with programs structured to accommodate working professionals.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
―
20/11/2024
Related Articles
may be more suitable as it offers a comprehensive foundation and greater flexibility in specialization.
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
An EMBA too, like an MBA, covers a wide range of topics, including operations management, international business, marketing, finance, and human resources. In contrast to MBA, EMBA courses are typically delivered through recorded lectures or online courses, which is more suitable for working people. To provide employees with the opportunity to learn and realistically execute the research, a variety of projects, studies, and in-person meetings are also conducted periodically.
Target Audience
Designed for experienced professionals and senior managers who want to enhance their leadership skills while remaining in their current roles.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
3. Which MBA Specialization is Best?
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
Executive MBA
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Definitions
Provides a comprehensive business education covering core subjects like finance, marketing, and operations. Many programs offer elective courses for specialization in areas like entrepreneurship, technology, or international business.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name