Diana George
The company already has over 500 subscribers, through a community of co-creators that PensionBox secured just a few months after its inception.
PensionBox is India’s first digital pension platform that seeks to re-imagine retirement for millions of people. PensionBox is the first to introduce the concept of digital pension or self-planned pension for non-government workers.
Trending Post
Before going public, PensionBox aims to refine its product further using feedback from its co-creators.
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
+91
While at it, the former business analyst realised that there were millions of other Indians living just like his parents, without a concrete pension plan in place, and thus, the idea of PensionBox took shape.
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
“At PensionBox, we are solving the great Indian retirement and pension problem for millions of Indian people. We believe our people can stay financially independent in their most vulnerable years (old age). We are doing it by joining hands with people who want to solve the problem with us as our co-creators,” Kuldeep proudly says.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Kuldeep says he is thankful to UPES for helping his start-up take off.
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
Email Address
“It all started with the thought of planning our parents’ retirement when my younger brother Shivam and I created a retirement plan and calculated how much is needed for their retirement,” Kuldeep recalls. “As we looked deeper, we realised that we were not alone in this. Millions of Indians did not have retirement or pension and stayed dependent on their families,” he adds.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
Tags
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
“Hence, PensionBox was born to make an impact and empower the people to plan their retirement and stay financially independent in their old age or retire early and follow their dreams,” he adds.
-- None --
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Submit
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
Please select Course
--None--
of UPES.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Subscribe
Course Type
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
Select Course
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Kuldeep, a student of B.Tech. in Applied Petroleum Engineering (Upstream) at UPES from 2010-14, hit upon the idea of PensionBox while working out a retirement plan for his parents one evening.
PensionBox is a cloud-based, AI-enabled technology platform which provides a simple, flexible, transparent, and a secure way of retirement planning. Because it is paperless, instant and online, it allows its users to top up or change or pause their saving frequency at any time without any penalties.
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
the
Kuldeep Parashar, UPES alumnus and Founder of PensionBox
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
“We are incubated by the UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (UCIE) and I am proud that UCIE is among the first ones to believe in PensionBox,” the young entrepreneur says. “I visited the campus after seven years of my graduation in October 2021 but this time as a founder and incubatee to share PensionBox’s vision and learn from mentors and professors there,” he adds.
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Published 26/10/2021
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
privacy policy
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
Founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, PensionBox attempts to personalise pension planning according to the needs and specifications of individuals, irrespective of their retirement age, location or vocation.
Please enter last name
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
By 2050, India will have an elderly population of 340 million without enough retirement savings if action is not taken, Kuldeep warns.
For the uninitiated, co-creation is the process of building a solution to a problem by joining hands with the people who are facing it. For decades, companies have made products first and then sold them to the users through marketing and advertising. Some companies did great and some didn’t. Co-creation bridges the gap between a company and its customers. Companies know about their customers’ needs and the customers see the product in making from day one.
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Last Name
One can start saving with as much or as little as one likes. It helps people plan, save, invest and track their pensions with complete flexibility to achieve total financial freedom when they retire.