Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Role of pharmacists
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
3) Utilize implementation science methods in pharmacy across limited-resource settings
2) Incorporate global public health principles in pharmacy education
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Pharmacists comprise the third-largest group of healthcare professionals  in the world and, over the past 50 years, the role of pharmacists has evolved along with the health care needs of our population. Today, pharmacists have extended their responsibility from dispensing to pharmaceutical care by maximizing the benefits of medications and their safety. In addition to dispensing medications and ensuring the safety and well-being of patients, pharmacists are assuming a larger role as medical counsellors, educators and advocates.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
This year World Pharmacist Day is particularly significant as the world faces the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. Pharmacists across the globe have been working tirelessly to stop the spread of the virus and to ensure people continue to have access to medicines they need. UPES School of Health Sciences has organised an online one-day event to commemorate the same. The celebration includes activities such as a pharma quiz, elocution and poster making and panel discussion on Technology Transformation in the healthcare sector.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
On the education front, educational institutions are transforming outcomes by ensuring that there are enough qualified and competent pharmaceutical professionals to meet the growing needs of our societies.
While pharmacists have the technical skills and competencies based on medication expertise to contribute to global health efforts, they often lack the foundational public health knowledge needed to fully exploit their skills as global health practitioners. To implement public health services, students should be appropriately trained in basic public health competencies to effectively manage the health of a community, the essentials of program planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. The complementary knowledge and skills in public health can empower pharmacists to serve as global health leaders in their community and abroad.
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
world pharmacist day 2020
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Formal recognition of pharmacists by associations and governments in developing countries as part of the public health workforce can give pharmacists the confidence to act in a global health context
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
They have a role to play in providing population-based care; developing disease prevention and control programs; providing health education; collaborating with state and local authorities to address local and regional health care needs, including emergency preparedness and response; advocating for sound legislation, regulations, and public policy regarding disease prevention and management; and engaging in public health research.
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world. Each year a new theme is developed to highlight their contribution to the health ecosystem. The theme for this year is ‘Transforming Global Health’. The day is an opportunity to communicate how pharmacists are transforming health through a variety of health services in their communities, including advising on healthy living, vaccination to prevent disease, and ensuring that medicines are taken correctly, thereby managing diseases well and improving the quality of life. It also covers how pharmaceutical scientists transform and prolong people’s lives by developing safe and effective medicines and vaccines.
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
1) Recognizing pharmacists as part of the public health workforce
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Formal recognition of pharmacists by associations and governments in developing countries as part of the public health workforce can give pharmacists the confidence to act in a global health context. With the global health workforce shortage and lack of appropriately-trained providers in limited-resource settings, maximizing the skills and knowledge of pharmacists can fill gaps in care and provide a platform for different levels of professional development, including global health engagement.
Implementation science is understanding how to translate evidence into everyday practice and can be utilized across public health issues from medication safety to mobile health. Implementation research for strengthening pharmacy systems and delivery processes in developing countries can help provide the data needed for government leaders to support the integration of pharmacists into public health services. As pharmacists develop their niche within global public health, there will be the need to understand how and why pharmacy services can improve the health and well-being of societies throughout the world in resource-limited settings.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Let’s have a look at  the dynamic role of pharmacists vis-à-vis the global healthcare care system:
Last Name
Published 24/09/2020