7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
One of the most significant advantages of UPI is its amazing convenience. Users can initiate transactions round the clock, seven days a week, totally eliminating the constraints of banking hours. Moreover, UPI's seamless transfers between different banks and payment apps foster financial inclusion by bridging the gap between urban and rural areas.
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
With quick and secure transactions, UPI has encouraged merchants to adopt digital payment solutions, boosting transparency, efficiency, and tax compliance. Merchants, especially small and medium enterprises (SMEs), have embraced UPI-enabled QR code payments as a cost-effective alternative to traditional point-of-sale (POS) terminals.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
1,586. At the same time, the branded shop category, which has products such as consumer electronics, mobile accessories, kitchen appliances, among others, saw an average transaction value of
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
In 2016, the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) launched UPI. What started as a simple platform for instant bank transfers on smartphones has now grown into a powerhouse. Initially launched with 21 banks, UPI now boasts a vast network of banks and payment service providers.
Course Type
Sushant Saklani
₹
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
Published 23/09/2024
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
according to a report published by Paytm.
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
The average ticket size for the e-commerce portfolio, which includes grocery, grooming, toys, and healthcare products, was pegged at
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
The Evolution of UPI: From Launch to Dominance
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
Challenges Faced by UPI: Value vs. Volume
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Tags
The Rise and Rise of UPI
Talking about travel, I recently went on a Euro trip. Buying anything was such a hassle there. Either I didn’t have the right amount of change, they didn’t accept cards, or their card machine was broken. I was proud that India has come a long way.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
UPI is projected to secure 90% of retail transactions by 2028
the
Unveiling the Benefits and Successes of UPI
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
3,184.
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
Last Name
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
While UPI transactions are inherently secure, NPCI and participating banks have implemented robust security measures to safeguard against fraud and unauthorized access. Steps like two-factor authentication, encryption protocols, and real-time transaction monitoring are among the measures implemented to enhance the security and integrity of the UPI ecosystem. All these insights and figures underscore the transformative impact of UPI on India's payment landscape. It highlights its undeniable role as a catalyst for digital financial inclusion, economic empowerment, and technological innovation.
Please enter mobile number
UPES School of Business
The writer is Assistant Professor at School of Business at UPES.
04/10/2024
While UPI is widely used for small-value transactions, its versatility extends to larger transactions as well. The transaction value on UPI has witnessed steady growth, with users increasingly leveraging UPI for a wide range of payments, including bill payments, online shopping, and peer-to-peer transfers. Source
This data highlights UPI's rapid adoption among Indian consumers and businesses, reflecting impressive growth in transaction volumes and values.
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
UPI has done more than this. As part of the Indian government's Digital India initiative, UPI has been a game-changer, promoting a cashless economy and cutting down on the need for physical currency. This shift not only makes transactions smoother but also saves a significant amount of money on printing cash – savings that ultimately benefit taxpayers like you and me.
And probably that’s why several countries like Singapore, UAE and France, amongst others, have signed agreements with India and will soon launch UPI in their regions.
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
This is why, by the end of last year, over 5 crore merchants and more than 30 crore individuals were using UPI, according to PIB.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
But today, you can use your phone to pay with UPI.
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Not so long ago, when you’d buy vegetables from your local seller, you’d pay in cash. But if you were dining at a fancy five-star restaurant, you’d whip out your credit card. There was almost a class divide in how we paid for things.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
Ensuring Security: How UPI Safeguards Your Transactions
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
At the beginning of this year, UPI transactions reached a record of 18.41 trillion Rupees in transactions for January. This figure is 52% higher in volume and 42% higher in value compared to the same month last year. And it is not a fluke; these numbers are on the rise and have crossed the 19 trillion mark twice since March.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
One of the most remarkable achievements of UPI is its penetration into rural areas, where traditional banking infrastructure is often limited. According to a data analysis by SBI, rural and semi-urban areas account for a 60 percent share of UPI in terms of value and volume. It has seen a surge of 118% in semi-urban and rural stores.
If we are purely looking at the value comparison, UPI transactions will fare much less than credit card payments as the latter is mostly used for bigger sums. So while UPI volume is on the rise and takes a significant portion of digital payments, it does not amount to high-value transactions usually. This is probably due to the limit on transactions through UPI, which may increase soon.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
The Global Impact: UPI Beyond India’s Borders
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Technology exports are rare from India, and this is something to be proud of.UPI, or Unified Payment Interface, has broken down old barriers and made transactions simple and accessible for everyone. In this article, I will explore how UPI is reshaping India's financial landscape. We’ll explore its transformative impact, the benefits it brings, the challenges it faces, and what the future might look like.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
What is even more amazing is that countries like Bhutan, Oman, UAE, the UK, and several other Southeast Asian countries have collaborated with Indian bodies like NPCI and BHIM-UPI to simplify transactions not just for their citizens but also for Indian tourists traveling to their countries.
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
The next time you are discussing UPI payments through QR codes with a friend, ask them if they know the full form of QR. If they give a Quick Response (pun intended), good for them!
This mode of payment is accepted by almost every small to big vendor and is used in peer-to-peer transactions as well. Thanks to cheap and accessible internet in India, its usage isn’t only restricted to urban areas. If you’ve travelled recently to a tourist destination in India, you will notice that most of these places accept UPI.
It refutes the widespread belief that UPI and digital payments are exclusively used in large cities and other urban areas. As per a media report, both urban centers and metro cities clock in at only 20% of transactions each.