+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
There is a clear need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications, and data analytics. Mastering these skills can open up several avenues for students.
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
This dynamic field only keeps growing. According to DataReportal, the number of social media users in India alone grew by 78% in 2021, and platforms now host 448 million Indians, giving advertisers an opportunity to reach 448 million through one medium. This growth in the number of users also resulted in an exponential growth in the Social Media Marketing and Analytics industry. According to Sprout Social, 81% of organisations use social media publishing/analytics tools and 83% of marketers find social media marketing effective in reaching their goals and target audience. With the onset of the pandemic, most communication practices, such as public relations, corporate communications, etc., have evolved to adjust themselves to this new digital age of social media, and hence the demand for social media strategists is constantly on the rise.
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Social media is now used as a strategic tool to carry out transactions of various kinds and magnitudes — right from important personal announcements to business deals worth millions, it has opened many avenues for businesses and corporates. Because of this new wave of social media advertising and branding, digital communication has become one of the most important skills of the 21st century.
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
To find out more about the programs and specialisations at SOMM, – C
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Published 20/07/2021
Tags
Submit
Through social media, corporates and businesses alike, can reach and understand the needs of their target audience directly. They can gauge how the audience is reacting to their organisation/product and find ways to improve and/or change how they function to solidify their market presence. Social media and digital communication remove barriers between a brand and the target audience and makes interactions seamless.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
upes school of modern media
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
lick Here
Social media has had an irreversible impact on our modern lives. It has changed the way we work, learn and buy, but most importantly, it has changed the way we sell. Social media is not a mere tool for entertainment or communication anymore; it has become a business. Social media, and the internet, have now evolved as platforms for advertising and marketing.
--None--
However, to become an expert in this industry, one needs strong academic qualifications. UPES School of Modern Media (SoMM) offers BBA (Events, Public Relations and Corporate Communications) with specialisation in Social Media, Marketing and Analytics to impart relevant skills to youngsters interested in building a career in this field.
social media marketing
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
As new technologies are employed into the ever-growing field of digital communication, the scope of the industry also grows exponentially.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
As this field grows, new ways to exploit social media and its features are being explored. Many brands are now using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Chatbots to address the needs of their audience. Another new technology being used by brands is Augmented Reality. Through this, people can test the features of a brand before purchasing their products.
18/02/2025
17/09/2024