UCIE
We bring to you some of the success stories from the entrepreneurial ecosystem nurtured by UCIE:
+91
start-ups
Pasta Cucina
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
First Name
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Homie
Umbeo Tech Private Limited
Pasta Cucina embraces the originality and authenticity of Italian flavours and ingredients
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
Agri Joy LLP start-up provides NextGen solutions for rapid transformation of the agri-tech industry
According to Dr. Githa S Heggde, Dean, UPES School of Business and Head, UCIE, “The objective of the centre is to synchronize and synergize the interactions between various stakeholders of the entrepreneurship ecosystem, enabling students to succeed through our structured programs and events. UCIE provides aspiring entrepreneurs with the necessary resources to form successful ventures. They are mentored through a professional business environment. The centre assists start-ups in operating business, and utilization of R&D and infrastructure to provide innovative solutions. UCIE also supports companies incubating with the centre in the commercialization of their products and services, consultancy for business planning, sourcing of funds, and adapting to digital transformation. This helps in contributing to the growth of business sectors in the country by generating new opportunities for businesses to flourish in the fields of renewable energy, agriculture, green technology, and many others.”
Agri Joy LLP
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Priyanshu Jain from BBA Digital Marketing at UPES School of Business (2018-21) came up with the idea to provide fresh vegetables and fruits at the doorstep using a smart IoT-based Hydroponics Kit. This led to the conception of Agri Joy LLP. Today, it is a registered agri-tech start-up associated with IIM Ahmedabad, located in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. The start-up provides NextGen solutions for rapid transformation of the agri-tech industry. The farm-based research centre and hydroponics farm facilitator provide support in terms of technology enabling seeds, nutrients and increasing farm productivity. The company assists the grower from seed to plate.
Mobile Number
Tags
Shabaash Bahadur Private Limited
Shabaash Bahadur Private Limited was incorporated on March 16, 2020. It is a Delhi-based start-up founded by Ravikant Dabi from B.Tech. LL.B. with a specialization in Cyber Law at UPES School of Law (2015-21) to provide hassle-free washing services for every vehicle. The start-up aims to provide 24×7 two-wheeler and four-wheeler washing services at the doorstep and comes with a monthly subscription plan for vehicle cleaning with the service assurance policy that refunds will be initiated on days when the work is not done.
-- None --
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Submit
Homie, a smart solution founded by UPES students Animesh Anand, Vaibhav Anand and Sanket Kumar, provides seamless and stress-free experience to students living in the hostel
Umbeo Tech Pvt. Ltd. was founded by Lakshya Gupta and Jaldeep Giniya in the year 2018. The start-up aims to reduce road accidents that are caused by fatigue or snoozing by providing a smart IoT-based device known as the Sleep Detector. The device is coded with eye and face detecting software that buzzes an alarm when the driver feels drowsy. Umbeo is dependent on its innovations and strong technical developments such as computer vision, IoT, embedded systems and machine learning.
Please select Course
--None--
Ebb and Flow Services Private Limited
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
Subscribe
Course Type
Mohit Nagpal, Senior Manager, UCIE says, “The council aims to assist UPES entrepreneurs, which includes faculty, staff, alumni, students, and the external business community to commercialise their product or service ideas and accelerate economic growth. The key technology focus areas are transportation, infrastructure, e-commerce, education, energy, IT/ITES gaming, animation cloud computing, biotechnology, energy technology, food processing technology, retail technology and fashion technology.”
Select Course
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Published 02/06/2021
The start-up has been featured in a safety impact film produced by the National Safety Science Campaign by Underwriters Laboratories.
Umbeo Tech Pvt. Ltd. aims to reduce road accidents that are caused by fatigue or snoozing by providing a smart IoT-based device known as the Sleep Detector
Please enter email address
the
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Mansha Dhingra
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
*
Ebb and Flow Services Private Limited is Dehradun’s largest online vegetables, fruits, grocery, and organic product store. With over 500 products, the start-up provides fresh fruits, vegetables, rice, spices, seasonings, and packaged products such as meats. It was founded by UPES student Pranjul Tiwari to help people meet their daily requirements without them having to going to the market. The start-up was recognised by the Start-up Uttarakhand, Government of Uttarakhand, on December 19, 2019.
Pasta Cucina was founded by Rachith Goel from BA LL.B. at UPES School of Law (2016-21). The venture embraces the originality and authenticity of Italian flavours and ingredients. Currently based in Jaipur and Rajasthan, Pasta Cucina serves 50 different kinds of pasta including Pasta Bowl, Pasta Tray, Dapper Nagger, and Seafood Special.
privacy policy
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs. Agri Joy LLP, Pasta Cucina, and Umbeo Tech Private Limited are few of the several ventures that have taken wings through UCIE
A subscriber email already exists.
UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (UCIE) provides a platform for students, aspiring entrepreneurs, technology start-ups and lab-stage innovations to thrive. It encourages talent and innovation by giving opportunities to potential change-makers, thereby contributing towards bringing about social and economic transformation. UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, business training programs and much more.
Please enter last name
Ebb and Flow Services Private Limited is Dehradun’s largest online vegetables, fruits, grocery, and organic product store
Pasta Cucina has come a long way from one cloud kitchen to three cloud kitchens and a full-size restaurant in nine months. The brand is on an adventure path to replicate its model in seven cities in the year 2021. The start-up now has expertise in serving gourmet Italian food.
Homie, a smart solution founded by UPES students Animesh Anand, Vaibhav Anand and Sanket Kumar, provides seamless and stress-free experience to students living in the hostel. A unit of Lagom Innovations Private Limited, it is a platform for students to search and book ideal accommodation as per their requirements. Students can make informed decisions after they have seen authentic photos and reviews of hostels, PGs or flats provided by Homie.
Last Name