According to a study, at least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G in the first year of it becoming available. In fact, they are also ready to shell out 50 percent more for 5G plans that include among others, facilities like bundled digital services.
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
5G applications help in cutting costs, reducing downtime, reducing wastage, and improving productivity. The high reliability and high speed of 5G will also be useful in supporting applications in smart manufacturing such as remote monitoring/maintenance process automation.
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
All these facilities, supported by smart cities, will not only raise our standards of living but also drive the economic growth of the country.
12/08/2024
Ensuring a smarter and more connected world
01/10/2024
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
School of Engineering
5G will make it convenient for communications service providers in coping with consumers’ growing data needs, resulting in a better overall consumer experience. According to an Ericsson study, the transition to 5G will result in a coma per gigabyte that is 10 times lower than the current 4G.
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Not only that. For consumers, 5G will mean a more connected world. In the early stages of 5G, there will be improved mobile broadband (eMBB) and fixed wireless access (FWA). These will promptly address the issue of low fixed broadband penetration in India and improve consumers’ data experience while on the go.
Future engineering technologies to bet on
B.Tech. (Electronics and Communication Engineering) in 5G Communication and Technology
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
5G will revolutionize the concept of smart cities
5G will revitalize the healthcare sector
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Image credit: Shutterstock
Aditya Mukherjee
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Study
5G has the potential to make India the world’s first digital superpower. The participation of non-telcos in 5G ecosystem will power innovation and use case development for connected living.
Smart cities are now on the radar of authorities. And 5G will be the cherry on the cake. A smart city is expected to have self-driving cars, robots getting into the act of performing surgeries, and buying essential commodities for us – the list will keep growing once we make a go of the concept of smart cities seriously.
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
26/07/2024
Moreover, by using private and public 5G networks, manufacturers can easily link systems inside the factory to the supply chain, distribution warehousing, and customer service. 5G is known to support better logistics, tracking of inventory, and safety enhancement.
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
Such advancements include automated diagnosis, data-driven medicines, video medical assistance, and so on.
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
After the stupendous success of 4G, 5G technology is off to a flying start in the technology landscape. 5G now holds all the aces as it will come as a major boon for the manufacturers as they can exploit to the hilt the advantage of automation, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), and Augmented Reality (AR).
The healthcare sector that comprises clinics, hospitals, and other emergency venues may be able to monitor the condition of a person properly only if the equipment they are using support rapid technological advancements.
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
To let the healthcare sector comply well with these technological advancements, 5G has come as a shot in the arm. It will be able to deliver the required quality of care to admitted or non-admitted patients through surgeries or medical operations.
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
Published 11/10/2022
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
*
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
at UPES.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
There will be no requirement for wired connectivity, leading to a flexible manufacturing environment. 5G technology will hugely impact the production and distribution of goods.
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
It is obvious that to deliver such sort of care, hospitals would be needing high-speed and massive bandwidth, and 5G would make all this possible.
5G technology will also support IoT sensors, AI vision cameras, and autonomous robots. Also, IoT sensors will be installed on machines to monitor status and send out alerts for routine maintenance.
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?