Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
Diana George
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Data science is everywhere:
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
School of Liberal Studies
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
Knowledge of machine learning:
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
Relevance of Data Science in Economics
Economics as a statistical and mathematical subject is heavily dependent upon data. The basic premise of Economics is to find helpful insights from datasets that reveal information about the financial state of an organization in order to take better budgetary decisions. Data analytics thus forms a crucial part of both Economics as well as Data Science and the two subjects have a lot in common. Both require strong analytical abilities and involve investigation of huge sets of raw data in order to discover patterns and solve quantitative problems through modeling techniques. Data Science is, in fact, revolutionizing sectors today in which economists mostly work, such as banking, insurance, finance, healthcare, public policy and consulting.
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
can help young graduates step up the career ladder:
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
A degree in Economics will prove to be beneficial to a career in data science as it will give one an alternative perspective on data. An Economics graduate’s ability to understand causal relationships between numerical datasets will enable him or her to interpret data in new and valuable ways which can help organisations refine their strategic planning.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Tags
Communication skills:
Submit
Economics and Data Science are closely-related subjects. Data Science as a formal discipline evolved in the 2000s but it made considerable headway as a new and emerging field of study in the 1970s when economists and researchers began widening the scope of statistics from a subject that mainly involved describing the data to a subject that would include not only collection or description of data but also its analysis, using scientific methods and tools.
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Presentation skills:
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
Alternative perspective on data:
Data Science is a rapidly growing and ever-expanding field. Data science and analytics jobs are among the fastest-growing jobs today. According to the Bureau of Labour Statistics, data science jobs will grow by a whopping 43.4% by 2029. This rapid growth is going to expand the horizons for economics graduates who have a specialization in data science.
The term ‘Data Science’ was first used by Professor C.F. Jeff Wu as an alternative name for statistics during a lecture given to the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing in 1985. His reason was simple: the term would prevent statistics from being stereotyped as an accounting subject or a discipline that was just limited to describing the data. Data Science was much wider in scope and apart from statistics, it also included methods and toolkits to analyse and dissect the data to find meaningful knowledge that would inform business decisions, predict outcomes or describe future courses of action.
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Rapid growth of jobs:
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
Higher earning potential:
degree in Economics with Data Science
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
Economics and Data Science graduates are required to regularly make presentations and this helps finetune their presentation skills such as speaking and listening, while boosting their confidence levels and training them in leadership skills.
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
An Economics and Data Science degree can train graduates in using simplified language to explain complex concepts or algorithms. This skill can come in handy when trying to explain their findings and reports to individuals or organisations who may not have any prior knowledge of data or analytics.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Published 08/03/2022
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
A degree in Economics with Data Science will improve graduates’ knowledge of machine learning. Both Data Science and Economics involve a study of algorithms. While Data Science refers to these algorithms as types of machine learning, Economics refers to them as linear regressions or statistical models.
Email Address
Both Economics and Data Science have a lot in common. Both require strong analytical abilities, involve investigation of huge sets of raw data and solving quantitative problems through modeling techniques
Below are some of the ways in which a
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
Economics graduates with a specialization in Data Science will boost their earning potential as knowledge of data analytics is in high demand these days. Economics graduates with a sound knowledge of data science techniques and toolkits will be able to beat the competition and thrive in a tight job market.
privacy policy
Data science has widespread prevalence today. Almost every sector and industry banks upon an army of data scientists and analysts to aid decision-making and strategy planning. Economics graduates with a specialization in Data Science can take advantage of the resulting surge in demand for data scientists and analysts.
Last Name