5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Diana George
+91
Runner-up and Best Opening Statement
The Alternative Dispute Resolution Association (ADRA) of the
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Course Type
– Sneha Anchalia and Siddharth Narula, Amity Law School, Noida
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
‘Madhyastham’ is ADRA’s pioneer program to continue its commitment of promoting alternate methods of dispute resolution. The national fest seeks to help students develop their skills in dispute resolution. The pioneers of the industry too have joined UPES on this quest to promote ADR methods.
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
Pranav Patil, Maharashtra National Law University, Mumbai
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Published 06/04/2022
Tara Ranade, OP Jindal Global University
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Best Opening Statement –
Pamidi Swetha and Pushpit Singh, Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Participants/Winners of 2nd National Arbitral Award Writing Competition:
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
school of law
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Runner-up Mediator:
Winners
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
The three-day fest consisted of three competitions: The 4th National Mediation Competition, the 2nd National Negotiation Competition and the 2nd National Arbitral Award Writing Competition. The event was held in collaboration with India International ADR Association (IIADRA), Indian Institute of Arbitration and Mediation (IIAM), CMC, Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (CIArb), Asia Pacific Centre for Arbitration & Mediation (APCAM), Bombay Chamber, Crop Comm Legal, Supreme Court Cases Online (SCC Online), Eastern Book Company (EBC), and Katcheri.in.
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
ADR or Alternative Dispute Resolution has quickly gained momentum in the Indian as well as the international legal fraternity as a method by which people settle differences while avoiding argument and dispute
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
Below are the winners of the three competitions under ADR Fest, 2022:
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
Negotiating Team: Divyansh Morolia, Adira, National Law Institute University, Bhopal
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
UPES School of Law
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
– Ishan Saxena and Arjan Ajai Singh Chonker, Jindal Global Law School
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
-- None --
2nd Best Team – Mediator:
The ADR has quickly gained momentum in the Indian as well as the international legal fraternity as a method by which people settle differences. It is a process by which compromise or agreement is reached while avoiding argument and dispute. It is a bargaining process between parties where both seek to reach an agreement that settles a matter of mutual concern or resolves a conflict.
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Mediator:
Aditi Shreya, Divyansh Morolia, Adira Chaturvedi, National Law Institute University, Bhopal
Negotiating Pair:
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Nilotpal Singh and Tanisha Taneja, Maharashtra National Law University, Mumbai
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Mediator: Pranav Patil, Maharashtra National Law University, Mumbai
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Best Team:
The ADRA, School of Law, UPES, was constituted to facilitate and promote alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and develop and enhance skills required in arbitration, mediation, and negotiation. The Association has been working diligently towards raising community and campus awareness and constantly providing a platform for alternative dispute resolution tournaments all over India.
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
Before the competitions, the ADRA at UPES organised a webinar on ‘Making of an Award and Enforcement’. Guests specialising in the field were invited to speak on the topic. The guests included the moderator of the session Mr Sameer Shah, Director of CIArb India Branch; Dr Shashwat Bajpai, Mr Arush Khanna, Ms Kshama A Loya and Mr Deepak Narayanan, all of whom are members at CIArb and leading members in various firms. The webinar was fruitful as the information given to the students came from experts. It was conducted smoothly, with students joining to listen to the speakers, both online and offline.
held its annual ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’ from April 1-3. The online event saw participation from around 23 teams from law institutes across the country, such as National Law Institute University, Bhopal; National Law University, Jodhpur; Amity Law School, Noida; Government Law College, Mumbai; Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad and National Law University, Odisha, among others.
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Best Coordinating Team
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
2. National Mediation Competition:
1. National Negotiation Competition:
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Runner-up Negotiating Team:
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Jeevesh Dubey and CC Pair: Sriram Shirke and R Dharini, Maharashtra National Law University, Nagpur
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Bhavya Gupta and Devendra Milind Shaligram, OP Jindal Global
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
– Shivangi Agarwal and Prakrit, Maharashtra National Law University
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022