5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Diana George
Kartikey Kesarwani pursued B.A. LL.B. with specialisation in Energy Laws from 2012 to 2017. He is jubilant about obtaining Rank 31 in the Bihar Judiciary Examination and is keen to bring about social change through his work.
+91
Divyanshu credits UPES with providing him the opportunity to participate in various national and international moot court competitions which greatly expanded his skills repertoire.
Hari Priya’s success story is no different. Graduate of B.Com. LL.B. with specialisation in Taxation Laws, Hari Priya secured 117th rank in the Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022.
02/01/2025
12/09/2024
About his alma mater, he says, “The numerous moot court competitions helped me hone my skills. Our teachers were always available with advice and words of encouragement whenever we needed them. My success wouldn’t have been possible without them.”
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
UPES alumnus Divyanshu Gupta (B.A. LL.B. with specialisation in Energy Laws, 2013-18), fresh from his success at the Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022 – he secured 2nd rank – reminisces the day he made up his mind to join the legal profession.
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
“My dream of becoming a judicial officer and bringing about change in society is finally coming true,” Hari Priya gushes. She attributes her practical training and courtroom learning experiences to the School of Law and advises law aspirants to persevere and exercise patience.
“UPES played a constructive role in helping me improve my knowledge and analytical skills,” he says. “I was raised in a small town, but the exposure at college boosted my confidence. I befriended bright minds from across the country which greatly changed my cultural and social outlook and trained me to deal with the day-to-day challenges of life,” he adds.
Course Type
She hopes to serve the nation to the best of her abilities and write a book when she can on life inside a courtroom.
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
Published 16/12/2022
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
The UPES alumna also expresses gratitude towards the university for her success and glory.
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
school of law
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
“I grew up watching my family suffer through a financial crisis,” Divyanshu says. “I kept my faith alive in the judiciary, continuously hoping and waiting for relief,” he adds.
By
the
Divyanshu, a first-generation lawyer in his family, had a rigorous schedule when it came to preparing for the competitive examination. He moved to Delhi for coaching and succeeded in clearing the Prelims. For the Mains, he decided to go back to his hometown and rely on self-study. His hard work yielded results when he secured Rank 2 in the Bihar Judicial Services this year.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
“Patience and perseverance are the keys to success. Above all, the right mindset is a prerequisite to becoming a great judge. Compassion and kindness are added imperatives,” she asserts.
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
He advises law aspirants to read a lot, be exceptionally organised, maintain a healthy perspective and not be too hard on themselves even if they stand face-to-face with failure.
A subscriber email already exists.
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
The succour came in 2015 when the Supreme Court set aside the government decree and ruled in favour of the employees.
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
For the last two years, Divyanshu has also been guiding college students and judicial service aspirants to prepare for these exams. He holds pro-bono classes online and wants to create a platform where selected officers and teachers can guide aspirants from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds.
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
Email Address
UPES alumni Hari Priya and Divyanshu Gupta
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
It was the day in 2000 when the Madhya Pradesh government decided to retrospectively stop the salaries of employees in government-aided schools. The decision hit families hard and Divyanshu’s father lost about 15 years’ worth of salary.
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
“That is when I decided to be a part of the judiciary, to contribute towards maintaining this trust the public has in the institution and towards making the justice delivery system swift and efficient,” the Bihar Judiciary Examination topper says.
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022