best places in dehradun
These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
Diana George
Source: mapio.net
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
Trending Post
+91
Robber’s Cave
Published 20/05/2019
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Tapkeshwar Temple
Source: blog.visiit.com
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
If you are looking to spend a day in near a stream and amidst the beauty of Dehradun, Lachhiwala is the best place to visit. Surrounded by tall green trees, this place is relaxing and is known for gorgeous sunset views, trekking trails and even bird watching. With a rejuvenating pool to chill out and luxuriant greenery around it, Lachhiwala is one of the best places to visit in Dehradun.
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
Source: photometri.wordpress.com
4. Lachhiwala
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Lush green environment and peace all around; the city consists of religious attractions, hill stations and wildlife havens. There are an end number of places for college students to enjoy. Even better, these places are extremely inexpensive which is an add on for college students. In the following article, we have made a list of some interesting places which students can visit.
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Tags
-- None --
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
A very famous temple near Dehradun is the Tapkeshwar temple. The temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva and is one of the best places for students to visit in Dehradun city. The temple is built in a natural cave where water continuously drops on the Shiva Lingam. This is one of the key attractions that make Tapkeshwar temple an attractive picnic spot for students. The other is the sulphur water spring near the temple. It is surrounded by majestic mountains that adds to the beauty of this holy place.
FRI is a heritage building and the complex of the university is as huge as 2000 acres. The reason why you should visit the museum is simply because of its Greco-Roman architecture and the six museums that attract one and all. There are six museums inside the FRI Campus. These include Pathology Museum, Social Forestry Museum, Silviculture Museum, Timbra Museum, Non-Wood Forest Products Museum, and the Entomology Museum.
Please select Course
exciting places for students in dehradun
--None--
UPES Admission Enquiry
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
Forest Research Institute
of UPES.
Subscribe
Course Type
Select Course
Source: trawell.in
relaxing places in dehradun
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment. The scenic backdrop of the Garhwal Himalayas, beautiful Queen of hills; Mussoorie and many other places situated near the outskirts of Dehradun invites many visitors.
Please enter email address
By
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
the
UPES Editorial Team
Lacchiwala
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Mansha Dhingra
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
*
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
One of the most popular picnic spots, Robbers Cave in Dehradun is an exciting place for students to visit. It is a natural cave which is long and narrow. It is surrounded by lofty hills and has freezing-cold springs inside. A serene picnic spot where people can dip their feet in the ice-cold water of the cave and walk through it.
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Ekta Kashyap
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Please enter last name
3. Robbers Cave
1. Forest Research Institute or FRI
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Last Name
2. Tapkeshwar Temple