Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
UPES has been at the forefront of industry-oriented, future-ready, and world-class education, turning crisis into opportunity whenever the need arises. That’s the reason it is the preferred choice for corporates for recruiting fresh talent. This year industry giants like Accenture, Adani Power, Amazon, Deloitte, DTDC, TCS, Cognizant, SpiceJet, Infosys, Flipkart, Wipro, Byju’s and Vedantu, have already recruited students from UPES. The university not only helps students in final placements, but also ensures that the pre-final-year students have industry exposure through internships on live projects under the guidance of industry mentors in online mode.
First Name
one of the key differentiators for the recruiters
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Published 31/05/2021
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
UPES organises a
UPES has been focussing on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals with relevant ‘real world’ education and ‘on the job’ exposure. The industry-readiness of UPES students has been
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
About the multi-prolonged placement drive, Manish Madan says, “The whole interview process this year is being carried out virtually with the students and corporates participating from their respective locations. Organisations are giving assignments or taking virtual technical rounds as a part of the recruitment drives. Online assessment tests, virtual group discussions, aptitude tests, domain-specific online tests, and HR rounds are the stages involved in the recruitment process. It is important for us to train our students for all these new ways of recruitment well in advance. To ensure this, we make a series of interventions, such as holding webinars with industry experts, mock interviews to ensure that the student is comfortable during the actual placement drive, besides training them on their domain and soft skills. The university has not left any stone unturned to ensure that students have a job before they graduate.”
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
UPES has been offering special placement assistance to alumni
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
. Through insightful workshops, seminars, and training programs, this camp prepares students to face professional challenges; to survive and grow in their job. Additionally, it gives students comprehensive training, equips them with life skills, cognitive and metacognitive skills, oral and written communication skills, competencies to build resume and social media profiles, personal branding, and mock interviews.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
15-day Employability Boot Camp for its final year students
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
2021 is 27 LPA from UPES School of Business
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The university’s robust Career Services department ensures that the students have adequate industry exposure and get naturally and rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their degrees.
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
Alumni Connect
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
This year again, for the fifth year in a row, UPES School of Computer Science has achieved 100% placements. UPES students have been placed across various Indian and global corporations, start-ups and unicorns. The highest pay package for the year
A subscriber email already exists.
Besides successfully meeting the targets of maximum placements over the years,
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
Owing to its commitment to support the alumni in all aspects of their professional life, UPES has been going the extra mile to ease the burden on the families of its alumni. UPES offers a 35% discount on tuition fees for all post-graduate courses. This is applicable for alumni who have completed graduation from UPES and wish to pursue post-graduate courses at UPES or any other academic partner institution.
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Additionally, UPES has launched an initiative called ‘Sahyog’ that aims to provide help and support to the family of alumni by creating region-wise WhatsApp groups. Currently there are 350 + alumni across 20+ cities supporting this initiative and saving lives of people in need.
Pradeep Jagwan
UPES placements
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
Employability Boot Camp
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Manish Madaan, Director, Career Services and Corporate Relations, UPES, says, “In March 2020 when the first nationwide lockdown was imposed, we were in the middle of our placement season for the graduates. The biggest setback was for our final year students as they were the first to experience virtual recruitment process and it was a new way of placements for us as well. We learnt a lot and our learnings helped us in preparing for this placement season. We geared ourselves up with video resumes, elevator pitches and improved our virtual presence. So, at a time when people are losing jobs, salaries are being cut and offers are being revoked, UPES has managed to offer multiple jobs to deserving and meritorious students. Credit for this goes to our faculty, who committed themselves to online teaching, and our students, who, despite all the challenges, ensured that they gave their best.”
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Campus hiring is an important platform for students to get noticed in the job market and is a valuable addition to their professional experience. Students who possess relevant skills, and have industry exposure to some extent through internships, have better prospects of landing their dream job, in comparison to those who have had little or no exposure. Merely having a degree is certainly not good enough, the right skills are a must have in today’s day and age.
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
. UPES acts as a bridge between the recruiter and alumni. UPES also supports in upskilling, building portfolios, and enhancing the resume.
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name