Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
Nestled within the captivating expanse of the Higher Central Himalayas, the historic township of Joshimath recently found itself at the epicenter of a geohazard crisis. Reports surfaced of ground subsidence, cracked homes, and oozing water, sparking concern for the densely populated region. Responding to the urgency, a trio of geologists from the Energy Cluster at UPES Dehradun, namely Dr. Girish Ch Kothyari, Dr. Atul K Patidar, and Dr. Uday Bhan, embarked on a meticulous field study in March 2023.
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Using a combination of satellite-based techniques, including AHP, SPIM, and geodetic RADAR, alongside traditional field geological mapping and geotechnical investigations, the UPES research team compiled a rich dataset for analysis.
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
The mission was clear for this trio – unravel the mystery behind the recent geohazard events and provide essential insights for future mitigation and infrastructure development. What they discovered was a complex interplay of geological, geomorphological, structural, and geotechnical factors contributing to the vulnerability of Joshimath.
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
The study attributed the vulnerability of Joshimath to a combination of factors. Steep slopes in the upper Alaknanda Basin, highly sheared lithologies, and the impact of urbanisation, particularly infrastructure development, were identified as key contributors. The blocking of natural water flow paths exacerbated weathering and erosion, compromising the cohesive strength of the soil.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
UPES Faculty Decode Geohazards in Joshimath
Please enter first name
A team of geologists from the Energy Cluster, School of Advanced Engineering, at UPES Dehradun embarked on a comprehensive study to unravel the mystery behind the recent events in Joshimath and provide crucial insights for future mitigation and infrastructure development.
Mobile Number
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Damaged zones in the upper reaches of the Joshimath region. A team of geologists from the Energy Cluster at UPES Dehradun interacting with locals and collecting ground data to assess potential causes of geohazards in the Joshimath region. Wide cracks in the walls, damaged foundations of homes, and land creeping in the middle part of Joshimath (near the main bazaar) are visible in the pictures. A panoramic view of Joshimath village from the Hathiparwat side (Badrinath highway) is provided at the bottom, indicating an average slope of approximately 56 degrees in the Joshimath region.
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
In essence, the collaborative efforts of the UPES geologists have not only unveiled the complexities of Joshimath’s vulnerability but also provided a blueprint for geoscientific studies in similar terrains. Their findings are instrumental in crafting effective geohazard mitigation plans and ensuring sustainable infrastructural development in the face of evolving environmental challenges.
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Explains Dr. Uday Bhan, Exploring the diverse facets of the Himalayas in sedimentology, geochemistry, and biostratigraphy is not just a scientific pursuit, but a journey to create knowledge that fosters geohazard mitigation.” He trusts that this research will provide valuable analogs, contributing to safer environments and informed decision-making for the future development of the region.
The results painted a concerning picture: only 3.97% of the area was deemed stable, while 8.54% showed moderate stability. However, a significant 67.95% of the region fell within the moderately to highly vulnerable zones, signalling potential risks for future geohazards. Time series results indicated ongoing deformation, further emphasising the critical need for monitoring and mitigation strategies.
Please Select Course Type
Published 29/01/2024
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Kama Choudhary
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Team of Geologists from Energy Cluster, UPES Dehradun. From left to right, Dr. Uday Bhan, Dr. Girish Ch Kothyari and Dr. Atul Kumar Patidar.
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Delineating the reasons for undertaking the study, Dr. Girish Chandra Kothyari, says, “Each discovery in the Himalayas is a step towards enhancing societal resilience and shaping a better tomorrow. The future infrastructural development in these regions requires an in-depth geological analysis to mitigate natural hazards.”
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
Echoing his sentiments, Dr. Atul Kumar Patidar, says, “We are working in a tectonically-sensitive region. With updated chronological records and an understanding of paleo-seismic history, we can offer insights that pave the way for resilient infrastructures and sustainable living in the Himalayan terrains.”
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name