Food start-up incubated at UPES seeks to empower local communities
Published 04/10/2022
“The scholarships and cash awards are a motivation for sportspersons to push themselves to do their best in any given circumstance,” Navneet says.
Taking cognisance of this need to develop a thriving sports culture in the country and make quality education and career pathways accessible to meritorious individuals, UPES Dehradun has announced new sports scholarships for the academic year 2022-23.
Apart from the academic eligibility, the scholarship is provided if the student continues the sport as part of the UPES team.
Commenting on the new scholarships, Dr Sunil Rai, Vice Chancellor, UPES said, “As a University of Tomorrow, we stand on six strong pillars, one of which is ‘Purpose’. Driving the purpose of education for all, UPES has added this new scholarship to the existing ones. It is a privilege for us to announce Project Vijay in the presence of the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.”
Diana George
Dr. Sravendra Rana, Senior Associate Professor at UPES School of Advanced Engineering, is developing materials that can repair autonomously and help in preventing airplane accidents. This breakthrough in airplane safety can be a game-changer in the aeronautical industry
Trending Post
Last Name
A diet trend that promotes health and longevity
+91
However, the role that scholarships play in altering the course of a nation’s sporting trajectory cannot be ignored. Data shows that most of India’s medal-winning athletes come from poor backgrounds, mostly from remote villages in India’s hinterland. They have the talent, but not the guidance, facilities, or the finances.
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Secured an All India Rank – 2 in in the order of merit in Computer Science Engineering for Technical Graduate Course -132 entry of Indian Army
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sports scholarship
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Under the project, a total of 50 seats would be allotted for the following sports: Cricket, Football, Athletics, Basketball, Volleyball, Table Tennis, Badminton, Shooting and Chess.
Email Address
Mobile Number
“Schools, colleges, and the government should do more to promote sports scholarships,” he adds.
This is where sports scholarships play a key role.
Applicable only on the tuition fee, the scholarship will range from 35% to 100%, depending on the number of achievements and the national and international sports representation by the candidate.
Tags
Have a design-related question? This prof has all the answers
Speaking at the recently-concluded Khelo India University Games (KIUG), Shah envisioned a strong sporting India by 2047.
-- None --
Is intermittent fasting a step towards a healthier lifestyle? It is generally safe and does not result in energy level disturbances or increased disordered eating behaviours.
UPES alumnus Aryan Singh founded ‘FitBread’ with Akshit Saxena and Aditya Kashyap.
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
The announcement of 50 sports scholarships under Project Vijay was made at an event held in the university campus in the presence of Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Pushkar Singh Dhami, and Shri Sahdev Singh Pundir, MLA, Sahaspur.
UPES Stars
UPES Admission Enquiry
“Scholarships give players the chance to take up sports as a profession. They can put all their worries aside and focus solely on their game,” he says.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Dr. Divya Rawat
Related Articles
Despite scripting mega success stories consistently at all the recent international sporting events such as the Olympics and the Commonwealth Games, India still has some way to go before it is recognised as a serious contender among the nations competing for sporting glory.
By
Please enter email address
In saying so, the software engineer-turned-commercial pilot echoes the words of Union Home Minister Amit Shah.
the
UPES alumnus and CWG silver-medallist Navneet Singh
Commonwealth Games 2022 silver medallist and UPES alumnus Navneet Singh, who represented India in the Men’s Lawn Bowls event, feels that sports scholarships play a vital role in boosting the morale of aspiring sportspersons and encouraging them to take up sports in a country that is marred by lack of key infrastructure.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
UPES alumnus and Commonwealth Games silver-medallist Navneet Singh is proud that his alma mater has announced 50 new scholarships under Project Vijay for students aspiring to make it big in the world of sports
Navneet says he is proud of his alma mater’s initiative to make sports an integral part of the academic curriculum.
Please Select Course Type
“We want India to be among the top five countries in terms of sports by 2047 when we celebrate 100 years of our independence,” Shah said. “We are building sports infrastructure, sports science centres, community coaching facilities, arranging international level coaches, and organising annual sports events,” he added.
The 28-year-old has received quite a few scholarships in his early sporting days and emphasises on their importance in furthering a player’s career.
Sports scholarships motivate athletes: CWG silver medallist and UPES alumnus Navneet Singh
What should students entering the field of design must know? How has the industry changed over the years?
“This will benefit talented sportspersons,” he says. “They will be able to focus on their sports and complete their studies without worrying about anything else,” he adds, before signing off.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
Big sporting feats at UPES in 2022
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
test_user
What if cracks could self-repair and prevent aircraft accidents? A researcher is making this possible
UPES provided opportunities for holistic development; proud to join the Indian Army
UPES alumnus and Commonwealth Games medallist Navneet Singh (left) and shooting champion and student Deeya Chopra (right).