Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
The writer is Prof. Rahul Nainwal, Director, School of Business, UPES
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
‘Apologies require taking full responsibility. No half-truths, no partial admissions, no rationalizations, no finger pointing, and no justifications belong in any apology.’ A good apology should be an honest appeal for forgiveness and must be rendered in a timely manner and include the following elements (or sometimes a combination of a few of these):
Please enter email address
‘To err is human, to apologize is humane.‘ Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Large corporations make mistakes, celebrities cross limits while interacting with social media, leaders in the political arena make errors, and they hurt customers, employees, business partners, or the public at large. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively, and this can severely damage their reputations and their relationships with stakeholders. Either way, what then transpires is the ‘economics of apologies’.
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Expression of regret
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
However, despite the benefits, Indians do not apologize as often you would like. One reason for this could be the importance of social hierarchy and power dynamics, where apologizing can be seen as a sign of weakness. Apologizing can actually be a way to signal strength and commitment to resolving disputes. But do we care?
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Acknowledgment of the mistake or wrongdoing
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
Another classic example of the right kind of corporate apology is the one extended by Johnson & Johnson during the Tylenol crisis. In 1982, seven people died from consuming cyanide-laced Tylenol capsules. Although an individual and not the company had caused the catastrophe, James Burke, the CEO at the time, immediately assumed responsibility for the calamity. Production and advertising were halted, Tylenol worth an estimated cost of about 100 million dollars already in the markets was recalled, a public statement was issued inviting consumers to return their bottles of Tylenol for a voucher and even though it was not an organizational error, Burke assured the public that this mistake would never be repeated and that capsules with new and improved packaging would be out soon. The general belief at that time was that it was the end of the Tylenol brand, but the new, better-packaged Tylenol regained 90% of its market share within a year.
If confident, promise that the offence will not be repeated (and live up to it)
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
‘Not admitting a mistake is a bigger mistake.’ Companies increasingly understand the value of saying sorry, and this is evident from the growing trend in the corporate world of apologizing; you rarely see an issue go unaddressed, and companies are investing time and resources in PR teams and crisis management. Companies want to regain consumer trust, and so they are admitting fault, asking for forgiveness, and promising that they have learned from their mistakes. But re-establishing trust is a consumer choice, not a brand choice, and not a quick process either. If we want to stay in the business, we need to say sorry before we put ourselves in a ‘sorry’ spot.
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/353427261_Toward_An_Understanding_of_the_Economics_of_Apologies_Evidence_from_a_Large-Scale_Natural_Field_Experiment
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
In 2015, Coca Cola came under the scanner for financially supporting a nonprofit’s work that seemed to shift the focus from good eating habits to exercise as a solution to obesity. Coca Cola was criticized for putting business interests ahead of consumer health. CEO Muhtar Kent immediately responded by writing an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal stating his disappointment that their supporting the nonprofit for a social reason had caused confusion, but went on to clarify that Coca Cola was committed to good health and strongly believed that lifestyle, including diet, are important. He also promised to introduce healthier options of the soft drinks and the company kept their promise by introducing low calorie options. Quick response, addressing the concern, a feasible promise for the future: all the elements of a good apology were in place.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Another reason for the lack of apologies could be cultural differences in communication style, where indirect communication is often preferred. Long story short – next time you’re in a disagreement, consider saying sorry. It might just help you out economically!
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
https://qz.com/1394320/economists-figured-out-the-best-way-for-uber-to-say-sorry
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Published 24/04/2023
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Lee et al. (2004) analysed annual reports from publicly traded companies and found that companies that admitted responsibility for bad earnings had higher stock prices one year later than those who did not. According to Ho and Liu (2011), after 36 states in the United States passed laws that encouraged doctors to apologise, malpractice cases settled 19-20% faster and there was a 16-18% reduction in the number of claims filed.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
https://boingboing.net/2014/05/13/economics-of-apologies.html
https://www.cnbc.com/2019/04/16/saying-im-sorry-can-make-people-think-poorly-of-you-research-heres-what-successful-people-do-instead.html
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
https://hbr.org/2006/04/when-should-a-leader-apologize-and-when-not
Decoding the economics of apologies
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
https://hub.airfoilgroup.com/blog/the-rise-of-apology-marketing-how-brands-can-say-sorry-like-they-mean-it
Mistakes have a cost associated with them. According to the World Health Organisation, medication errors alone cost an estimated US$ 42 billion annually globally. Besides, there is a price to pay in terms of loss of life and massive litigation costs due to medical goof-ups too. Even though some of these losses can never be compensated, it still deems an apology of some kind, and it does work somewhat, if not totally.
When Zomato messed up their order delivery to Sai Shyam G, a resident of Chennai, he was very disappointed. The food arrived 40 minutes late, the bread was burnt and the food was cold. A disheartened Sai tweeted about it, and then forgot about the incident. But he was pleasantly surprised a few days later when he received a hand-written note from Zomato apologizing for the poor customer experience. The apology note was accompanied by a cute little gift. The next tweet was from a super thrilled customer. The personal touch in the apology made his day and the gift – a cup and a diary – was the icing on the cake. Zomato touched the right chord and won over a client for life.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
https://www.npr.org/2018/10/17/658253838/the-economics-of-apologies-why-saying-sorry-isnt-always-as-easy-as-it-seems
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
School of Business
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Acceptance of responsibility
Image credit: Pixabay
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
https://sproutsocial.com/insights/public-apology/
References:
Last Name