+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
arrange and create looks for celebrities for various events like red carpets, movie premieres, press interviews, award functions, and other public appearances. They consider all aspects of the celebrity’s appearance while creating these looks such as clothing, hair, makeup and accessories. Their responsibilities include personal shopping for the celebrities for items like shoes, bags, accessories, and wardrobe, developing a signature look, and planning photoshoots, brand campaigns, and various magazines/editorial projects using their expertise and in-depth research.
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Celebrity Stylists
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
Image Consultants
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
Sports Stylists
Corporate Stylists
fashion design career options
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
prepare looks for professional athletes. For a celebrity in the sports industry, their aesthetics are key to creating a public image, as well as securing remunerative endorsements and positive publicity.
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Tags
Become a fashion stylist entrepreneur
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
work on the looks showcased on runway shows and during fashion weeks where renowned designers gather to exhibit their collections. They align the brand’s identity and signature fashion statements with the theme of the shows.
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES
By
the
fashion design
E-Commerce Stylists
Please Select Course Type
are stylists who focus on personal grooming, etiquette training, and overall personality development. They help people express themselves through their appearance and body language.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
Create a network of professionals and acquire hands-on experience through internships. UPES, through its industry connect and collaborations with international academia, provides a world of opportunities for students to gain practical experience of working in the industry.
Start with learning the basics and nuances of styling, which include understanding different body types, colour schemes, texture and more.
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
upes courses
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
UPES School of Design
26/07/2024
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Select a niche in the styling space. Students should analyse their interests, passions, and skills and ask themselves what problems they can solve for their clients. This is a prime aspect students can highlight when they start their careers. For instance, if clients are working mothers who have little time to focus on their appearances, how can a stylist help them with developing an easy yet effective wardrobe that fits their professions and lifestyle?
Steps to become a fashion stylist
Click here.
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can follow these steps to enter the industry:
Runway Stylists
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
develop different looks for brands and catalogues for e-commerce websites. They also work with retailers and manufacturers. Many e-commerce stylists are freelancers who work with several production houses, photographers, and designers of their choice.
Different types of fashion stylists:
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
Italian fashion designer Miuccia Prada once said, “What you wear is how you present yourself to the world…fashion is an instant language.” Indeed, fashion is a language that builds an immediate connection between people. Actors, musicians, sportspersons, and even politicians and business executives often capture people’s attention with their impeccable fashion sense, which reflects their personalities and intrigues people to know more about them. These styles, however, are visualised and created by fashion stylists working behind the scenes.
Published 24/12/2021
Earn a degree in fashion design. UPES School of Design offers courses in fashion design that are aligned with industry and global standards.
05/08/2024
After completing a degree in fashion design from UPES, students can also start their own business. They should thoroughly research their competition in the chosen niche. This is because if the niche has several stylists offering the same services, students will have to stay ahead of the pack with unique, specialised services, or pick another niche they can be equally passionate about. Once students have found their calling, they should go ahead and test their ideas.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
The styling industry is highly lucrative and has become in-demand, thanks to the onset of digital media, where one picture reaches millions of people in seconds. Hence, this is the right time to get started on this journey. Take the first step in that direction by enrolling in a design program.
Email Address
Fashion stylists are professionals who create a person’s visual aesthetic intending to appeal to a certain audience. They work across a wide range of industries – from political campaigns to e-commerce, professional photoshoots and sports events. For students interested in becoming fashion stylists, it is crucial to understand the nuances of the field.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
assist working professionals in building their desired corporate image such that their appearance helps strengthen their influence at work. They help clients dress as per social settings, workplace environment, professional events, office parties, corporate award shows, job interviews, and more. They also offer etiquette training to clients to build their confidence and create a powerful corporate image.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
fashion studies
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name