7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
It was the 1996 Cricket World Cup when fans started seeing the Wills logo on the first-ever coloured jersey of the Indian team. They were the first lead sponsor, also known as the sleeve sponsor of the team.
The only downside, is that your name is always highlighted and any wrongdoing of any stature or even the slightest controversy will cause you severe backlash.
This affected the finances of the company, and then the eventual arrival of Jio in the streaming league made matters worse in the coming years.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
The Sahara Saga: Legal Troubles and Collapse
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Well, this was after they had got a 40% discount on the sponsoring rights. Mind-boggling, right? Makes me think, about how much money Sahara was paying during their term. The Star saga gets more interesting here, just like their soap operas. Interestingly, Star had also bought the broadcasting rights of BCCI matches at INR 3851 crore as per a report in Business Today.
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
Just like the Super Bowl in the US or the Champions League in Football, the IPL is one of the, if not the most, lucrative windows for businesses who want to put their brand or product in front of a majority of households. The same goes for the cricket World Cup, traditionally with ODIs and now with T20s every two years.
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
12/08/2024
*
At that time, the World Cups were sponsored by business houses, and it was Wills again that sponsored the 1996 event. As a lead sponsor, Wills saw India through two World Cups and two mini-World Cups until ICC got the sponsorship rights of the event in 1999. But for those years of their association, Wills became a talking point nationwide amongst viewers, presenting the brand with a lot of visibility, catching the attention of viewers at the stands and more of those at home in front of screens.
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Then came the year 2017 when Oppo became the official sponsor of the Indian cricket team. Their tagline “Inspiration Ahead” didn’t sit well for them as their stint lasted only two years.
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
Brands are fighting for TV spots, sponsorships, and collaborations to leverage this phenomenon as cricket is now being played more than ever. If that’s not enough, the sponsors have so many chances to be in your living rooms now. The addition of a strategic timeout of two-and-a-half minutes, twice in an inning of a T20 match, provides more room for brand advertisements, and sponsors can leverage it to their advantage.
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
But once again, the real question is whether brands are still willing to be Indian cricket sponsors given the history of their predecessors is not so flowery, to say the least. So, here’s what I think about this decades-long episode from a purely business point of view.
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
But is that it? No!
Is Sponsoring Indian Cricket a Risky Affair?
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
Star TV's Roller Coaster Ride
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Oppo's Short-lived Stint
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
In 2019, BYJUs, the ed-tech firm, took over from Oppo with a $55 million deal. For them, it was a good collaboration as the startup was on the up.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
BYJU’s Boom and Bust
13/08/2024
For Star India, their contract with BCCI had tied up their hands, resulting in them no longer having the rights to broadcast IPL independently. There were two major reasons for parting ways. The first was citing the uncertainty around cricket. As unrealistic as it sounds now, ICC and BCCI did have some conflicts or lack of clarity, as they say, on the revenue-sharing model. As a result, Star thought of pulling out as a safe option. The other reason, which is not said out loud, was the conflict of interest as Star was both broadcasting as well as the jersey sponsor for the team.
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
The Lure of Sponsoring Indian Cricket
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
While China was getting its hands on several India-associated sports ventures, the growing India-China tension saw our government putting restrictions on Oppo. Any chance left for the revival of the firm and its association went down the drain with the infamous Galwan clash with China.
Please enter mobile number
In 2001, Sahara bagged the sponsorship rights, and their logo started flashing on the Indian cricket jersey. From financial services to real estate to TV broadcasting, the group ran diverse businesses, but the organization eventually started facing several legal welters leading to the fatal collapse of these business ventures. As per a news article published in PTI, nearly 3 crore investors were scammed by Sahara finances, to which they were eventually found guilty and were asked by the Supreme Court to pay around Rs. 25000 crores to them.
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
These giant brands saw a dismal fate soon after their names started appearing on the Indian Cricket Team’s jerseys. Coincidence? Or, was there something more sinister at play here? In this article, I will uncover which brands sponsored the Indian cricket team, the reasons for their downfall, why brands shell out so much money on sponsorship in the first place, and most importantly, answer the burning question: Is sponsoring the Indian Cricket Team a bad omen?
Most of these brands did face a bad ending, but there’s more to it than what meets the eye. For example, it wasn’t just Wills that faced the heat of strictness on surrogate ads; it was the entire tobacco division, and as a result, they too were in the crossfire. What Sahara did was a crime anyway. Duping investors of their hard-earned money isn’t going to give you a Nobel Peace Prize. The fact that they thought they could get away with it is itself an indication that no matter how big or strong your ties are, the law is going to get you back.
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
The First Sponsor: Wills’ Journey and Exit
Dream11 is now facing a new challenge with the heavy GST burden, which could potentially impact its finances. Whether this will lead to another example of the ‘Indian cricket sponsor jinx’ or if Dream11 can navigate through these challenges remains to be seen.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
First on the list of unfortunate brand associations is the Sahara Group.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
The deal ended in 2023, and then came the fantasy sports platform- Dream11. They not only clinched the jersey sponsorship but also the rights for the IPL. They were signed up at $43.7 million, which is a major decrease from the $55 million deal with BYJU’S.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Dream11’s Uncertain Future
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
In conclusion, while the history of Indian cricket team sponsors seems riddled with unfortunate events, it's crucial to analyse each case independently. External factors, poor business decisions, and regulatory challenges played significant roles in the downfall of these companies, rather than a simple sponsorship curse. Brands continue to see immense value in associating with Indian cricket, given the sport's massive reach and engagement in the country.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Published 24/10/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Things were all rosy for the company, but soon the dream (pun intended) shattered when the Indian government decided to levy a hefty 28% Goods and Services Tax (GST) on fantasy sports platforms. This has now put a lot of financial burden on Dream11 as it will become hard for it to maintain its revenue stream while shelling out so much money into sponsorship. This situation has now generated a big cloud of doubt on whether they will continue their association with the Indian cricket team.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
For OPPO and BYJUs, once again, it would be a lazy analysis to think of it as a jinx with the Indian cricket team. The China clashes made life difficult for not just OPPO but all other major Chinese brands who were doing well in the country. As for BYJUs, from misfiring marketing strategies where they were spending over 30% of their revenue on advertisement, to questionable accounting practices and excessive fund-raising without profitable returns, their fall was imminent.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Why so? Because they had just secured a whopping $785 million from several investors like Sequoia Capital India, Qatar Investment Authority, and Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI) amongst others.
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
The rules for surrogate advertising started becoming stricter, and because of that, Wills had to end its association with the team. Interestingly, before this, the World Cups had been sponsored by all kinds of organisations ranging from insurance companies like Prudential to other tobacco companies like Benson & Hedges apart from Wills.
The company had so many series of funding untouched that it could have gone for years without falling short of money. Yet down the years during their sponsorship stint, it was in the news for all the wrong reasons. The firm's mass layoffs raised many concerns when they were able to pay $5-7 million annually to football superstar Lionel Messi to be the brand ambassador of its social media extension. Even this effort could not save the sinking fate of the company as it would go on to cut its tie with the Indian team amidst constant financial losses. Even currently, BYJUs is facing a lot of trouble with resignations from its auditors, and board members, and delays in financial reporting.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
So why did they pull out?
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
Since they had both broadcasting and team sponsor rights, it put them in an interesting position where other stakeholders felt Star could be giving an added advantage to themselves. It is like Spotify running its own ads on Spotify! So, Star had to withdraw its team sponsorship contract as it prompted undue advantage over other sponsors. But their fate took a turn for the worse with respect to Indian cricket once Disney took over Star India. They no longer had the right to independently broadcast the Indian Premier League (IPL).
The association ended in 2013. Amul covered this news with a witty ‘ye bechare, bina sahare’ poster. That is known as Moment Marketing, and Amul has always been pretty good at it. Fast forward to 2014, Sahara chief Subrata Roy, along with two directors, were sent to Tihar Jail. In 2014, Star TV bagged the team sponsorship for the next three years. As per The Economic Times, Star TV's association with the Indian cricket team spanned from 2014 to 2017 when they were shelling out INR 1.92 crore per match.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Even the pitches suit high-scoring matches, making sure that the game goes on for the entire span of the stipulated time, as low-scoring matches would eventually reduce the match span and subsequently lesser exposure for the brand. Sports channels would re-run old matches, highlights, sneak peeks, analysis, etc., and that again gives these sponsors more than enough screen time to get a decent ROI on the money they have put into sponsoring the great Indian cricket team.
Last Name