Diana George
When it comes to the development of new technologies and engineering, problem-solving is at the core. Electric vehicles to self-driving cars that can go anywhere, AI-fighter pilots to 3D printing that promises everything from low-cost house construction to printed bones, the possibilities are unfathomable. Only yesterday, we were talking about robots that can perform repetitive tasks with a higher degree of precision and accuracy; today, we have living robots made using stem cells that can reproduce. This is both profound and exhilarating.
Trending Post
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
UPES campus in Dehradun
+91
Programs such as B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering) Graphics and Gaming and B.Des. Interaction Design, along with the infrastructure at the School of Design’s XR lab, have the potential to become major contributors to the development of Metaverse.
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
UPES has always encouraged learning that reacts to the evolving needs and demands of the world; learning that uses a combination of technology and human power to take education a notch higher every day
Such radical shifts have opened doors to both opportunities and uncertainties. UPES has kept pace with the advances of technology by continuously updating its educational blueprint to adapt to this technological disruption. Our advanced curriculum complemented with academic collaborations and industry tie-ups guide students with industry-specific knowledge along with the knowledge and tools pertinent to the future of technology.
By revolutionising the way we communicate, digital media is establishing a new global order. Everyone now has access to the tools needed to create and distribute content, and more importantly, everyone has a voice thanks to the internet. This is demonstrated by the rising user base and the volume of digital content created and distributed globally. The traditional media players have seen their business models challenged in the twenty-first century. They now have to compete with digital platforms for consumers’ time and attention.
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
How UPES is keeping pace with emerging technologies
Email Address
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
Renewable energy also took a whole new leap with the creation of batteries that can be fuelled by gravity and smartwatches that can be powered by the user’s sweat.
School of Business, with its focus on digital transformation and entrepreneurial mindset, is offering new-age programs such as Digital Media Laws, Start-Up & Entrepreneurship, Digital Marketing and E-commerce. The school has collaborated with KPMG for two programs MBA (Strategy & Consulting) – Business Innovation and Leadership, and MBA (Strategy & Consulting) – Emerging Strategies in New Economies.
Tags
Technological innovations in healthcare are spurring unprecedented investment in genomic sequencing. AI programs are solving the long-standing biological puzzle of protein folding, potentially allowing for the rapid development of drugs for a wide range of diseases. Immune engineering is working toward fighting diseases like cancer by using the patient’s own cells.
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
-- None --
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Submit
School of Engineering offers specialisations in fields such as Internet of Things, Data Analytics, Blockchain, Self-Driven Vehicles, 5G Communication and Technology, Smart Grid and Computing, E-Mobility, Robotics and Automation, Digital Oilfield and Green Buildings. Students at School of Engineering have already showcased flagship projects on human-like robots, flying cars, electric cycle, waste management, water security, solar driers and Biochar Bio Briquette (an alternate energy source).
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
Intelligent virtual assistants are redefining the way companies handle customers; algorithms are designing clothes. There is an AI software that can generate images from only verbal prompts; super-insulated clothing that can eliminate the need for indoor heating; a fabric that can detect a heartbeat, handclaps and faint sounds. This wearable technology can help the blind, detect cracks or strains in buildings, and can be woven into fishnets to detect the sound of fish.
School of Health Sciences and Technology has tech-ahead programs like Biomedical Engineering, Genomics and Biotechnology, which are going to be the next frontier in the field. These programs have components of technology, application and healthcare. The School has an exclusive collaboration with GE Healthcare for the Biomedical Engineering Program.
--None--
UPES Admission Enquiry
Please select Course
of UPES.
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
Subscribe
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Select Course
Published 28/07/2022
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
the
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Activities in the metaverse are already gaining traction with investors, marketers and businesses buying virtual real estate, creating virtual islands, and building digital restaurants with home delivery features. Soon people may even be able to adopt virtual children in the digital environment. And so, companies are hiring talent that can fulfil their metaverse dreams.
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
At School of Computer Science, new-age specialisations include Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Big Data, Business Analytics and Optimisation, Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, Cyber Security and Forensics, DevOps, and Full Stack Development, Graphics and Gaming, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality, Cryptography and Blockchain.
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
Course Type
privacy policy
In business, a decade ago, companies reacted according to the demands of the consumers. Now, companies can foresee the needs of the consumers basis the data generated by them on the internet. Smart factories, additive manufacturing and generative designs are also ushering in a new era of efficient production.
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
School of Law is one of the few higher education institutions offering LLM with a specialisation in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. UPES is also home to India’s only digital first media school – School of Modern Media – that offers digitally-driven programs along with state-of-the-art advanced studio.
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
In the legal profession, the inclusion of digital technology has had both qualitative and quantitative implications. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning are being used to help judges in analysing facts, processing courtroom discussions, assisting lawyers in legal research, as well as document review and drafting.
UPES, ‘The University of Tomorrow’, has always encouraged learning that reacts to the evolving needs and demands of the world; learning that uses a combination of technology and human power to take education a notch higher every day.
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
Technology has pervaded all aspects of human existence at a pace never seen before. Work, learning, relationships, ageing, sickness, parenting, and socialising are all changing as a result of technologies ranging from augmented and virtual reality, artificial intelligence, machine learning, brain-computer interfaces, chip implants, biometrics, social media and more.
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Last Name