- The digital world needs creative storytellers like you
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
Digital Marketing
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
- Translators and interpreters make it possible to share great stories and ideas with the world
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
- Interpreters translate conversations on the fly, helping people understand each other in various settings
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Published 08/07/2024
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
- As an Editor, you can refine others' writing and ensure every piece is polished to perfection
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
As a fresh graduate with an English degree, you're armed with exceptional writing skills and a deep appreciation for language. Content creation is a thrilling career path that allows you to channel your passion into engaging, informative, and entertaining content. Your English degree has given you the tools to write about any topic that ignites your imagination – from fashion and technology to wildlife and beyond.
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Conclusion
- Teaching English allows you to share your passion for language and literature with others
Your English Honours degree has equipped you with a keen eye for detail and a deep understanding of language. As an Editor, you can put your skills to work refining others' writing and ensuring that every piece is polished to perfection. Your degree has also prepared you for roles that go beyond the written word, such as simplifying complex ideas for a tech-savvy audience or mastering the art of content creation for the digital landscape.
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Translation and Interpretation
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Whether you're passionate about literature, have a knack for crafting captivating content, or simply love the magic of language, there's a perfect fit out there for you. Get ready to embark on an exciting journey as we unveil some of the most promising career options after a BA in English.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Content Writing and Blogging
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
- Your English degree has equipped you with the skills to craft compelling narratives
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
- Your English degree has given you a keen eye for detail and a deep understanding of language
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
- Your English degree has equipped you with strong writing skills and a love for language
If you have a passion for books and a desire to share your love of language with others, teaching English might be your calling. As an English teacher, you'll have the opportunity to open young minds to the wonders of literature and guide students on their own literary adventures. Your English degree has equipped you with a deep knowledge of books and a keen understanding of language, making you the perfect candidate for this rewarding career path.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Key pointers:
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
Have you ever been lost in a great book, wishing you could share it with the world? Translators and interpreters are the real-life heroes who make that dream a reality. As a translator, you'll have the opportunity to take amazing stories, websites, and articles and rewrite them in another language, spreading the magic of literature to a wider audience. Interpreters, on the other hand, are the real-life versions of those handy translation apps on your phone.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Please enter mobile number
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
- Your English degree has given you a deep knowledge of books and a keen understanding of language
Don't let your BA (Hons) English degree limit you to the confines of libraries and classrooms. The digital world is craving your creativity and storytelling prowess. Businesses are vying for online attention, and that's where your ability to craft compelling narratives comes into play. Your literary background has equipped you with the skills to weave product stories that captivate audiences and stand out from the generic crowd.
- Supplement your skills with short courses in digital marketing or e-commerce to bridge the gap between your literary expertise and the online world
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
Teaching and Academic Careers
-- None --
Editor
--None--
- Your degree has prepared you for roles in various fields, from writing and editing to technical communication
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro. But now, the real adventure begins as you explore the vast array of career opportunities that await you. Your English degree is your golden ticket to success in a wide range of fields, from creative writing to digital marketing and beyond.
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
- As a translator, you can rewrite amazing content in another language
- Content creation allows you to write about any topic you're passionate about
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
- A genuine love for reading and writing is the key to success in this field
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
An English Honours degree is your passport to a diverse and fulfilling career. You can become a master communicator in fields like mass communication or content creation, where you'll wield the power of words to inform and engage audiences. The digital world craves creative storytellers, and your skills can help you become a digital marketing whiz, crafting content that stands out from the crowd. If you love inspiring young minds, consider teaching English and shaping the next generation of bookworms. And for those with a keen eye for detail and a passion for language, editing and translation offer exciting possibilities. Embrace the possibilities and let your English degree be the catalyst for an extraordinary career journey.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
- Supplement your skills with a content writing course to refine your craft
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024