These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
Diana George
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
Trending Post
Image credit: Law student Divya Vasudev
+91
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
I.D.E.A.L Foundation:
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
This NGO has been working consistently on some of the most pressing issues of society such as education, environment protection, animal welfare and healthcare. Their list of initiatives includes Shuruwat ki Paathshala that promotes education among the disadvantaged groups; creating awareness on cleanliness and environmental protection among the local residents; supporting street animals by providing them food and shelter; and organising regular events and camps with doctors and health experts to facilitate proper medical help to those who cannot afford to pay for medical facilities.
Tags
Vichar Samiti:
-- None --
Shuruwat Foundation:
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Submit
Building Dreams Foundation: Promoting the social development of disadvantaged children and communities, Building Dreams Foundation serves the deprived sections in India. Their focus areas include food, education, environment and empowerment.
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
UPES Admission Enquiry
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
This NGO works towards improving ecological, economic, social as well as cultural aspects of the lives of the needy. They aspire to create a model of sustainable, participative development through awareness and social action for overall growth leading to better living standards.
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
The response of students and faculty was overwhelming as they came out wholeheartedly to support the cause.
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
the
UPES Editorial Team
To celebrate the spirit of giving, UPES’ Social Internship Team under the Career Services Department organised a two-day fair, wherein Dehradun-based NGOs exhibited their products made by the underprivileged communities. Other attractions included ‘Rangoli-making’ competition, ‘Best-out-of-waste’ contest and a ‘nukkad natak’.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Mansha Dhingra
Highlighting the intention behind the fair, Kirti Chandani, student of School of Computer Science, says, “The main motive of this initiative was to help less privileged people and small-scale business by promoting their work. UPES gave a wonderful platform to them for showcasing their work.”
Through such programs, UPES intends to do its part for the community and inculcate among students a sense of compassion. To make the world better, education must be inclusive and equitable and work towards eliminating all forms of discrimination.
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Hues of Holi @UPES
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
Published 28/10/2021
privacy policy
The Diwali Mela was held on October 26 at the Kandoli campus and October 27 at the Bidholi campus. Displayed products included exquisite handicrafts, candles and other gift items.
Inclusive Development for Education and Learning (I.D.E.A.L) is an initiative formed and led by activists from different spheres of life. It works towards climatic resilience and conservation of environment by focusing on building sustainable societies.
A subscriber email already exists.
Him Foundation: The institution was established in the year 2013 to bridge the gap between contributors and the underprivileged. Anybody who wants to help others can freely walk into their centre and discuss the ways in which he/she can contribute towards the cause they care for.
Ekta Kashyap
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Please enter last name
A student performing at the ‘Diwali mela’; Image credit: Divya Vasud
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Sometimes, the biggest changes begin with a simple act of selflessness. Lives can be transformed, and futures built by restoring hope among the most vulnerable. Such deeds are anything but ordinary.
Spreading cheer among the underprivileged, UPES Social Internship Team in collaboration with Dehradun-based NGOs organised a two-day fair, which displayed products made by orphaned children, marginalised women and promising artists
Last Name
BBA LLB student Divya Vasudev was happy that she got a chance to give back to the society and connect with various NGOs. She says, “We need to bring consciousness to remove unconsciousness from within us; we need to bring wisdom to remove ignorance from within us. This can happen if we all help each other in whichever way we can.”