+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Pathos
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
at UPES, my interactions with students, when they come out of the interview room, gives me a sneak peek of what works and what does not. Those who come out smiling have a story to tell and those with a frown are lost for words.
The power of storytelling is backed by science. Research shows that while listening to stories, our brain releases happiness hormones like Dopamine, Oxytocin, Serotonin and Endorphins (DOSE). Dopamine enhances focus whereas Oxytocin induces trust and generates empathy. Serotonin supports memory and Endorphins help the listeners to relax and focus on creativity. Focus, empathy, trust, an imprinting memory and creativity are the major ingredients, which help an interviewee to persuade a recruiter. A story helps you do exactly that.
(Using facts and evidence): As they say, “Show, don’t tell.” The use of facts and numbers in storytelling makes you sound credible. To demonstrate team-building skills, narrate an incident where you supported a project group to come together to brainstorm and deliver results.
19/09/2024
Storytelling has a wider use in today’s world – whether it’s marketing a brand or marketing self to a recruiter, storytelling can do the magic for you.
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
Happy Storytelling!
with your story.
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
We all have trunks full of stories; we just have to reflect and collect them on paper. I suggest students sit with a pen and paper and express the experiences they had – both in and out of the classroom – during their college journey. Then index your stories to sort them and use as per the questions asked in the interviews. It may be an event you hosted or a contest you won or a paper, which got published. A project done right or even a failed experiment is a story to showcase your values, interests and abilities to the interviewer.
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
S-Succinct-(Logos)-Dopamine
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Though our experiences may be different, they act as a unifying thread. So, own your stories, tell them with openness, and create a feeling of wonder to evoke the interest of recruiters in you. I am sure using your stories to let the recruiter know your skills and strengths will help you win that interview.
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
Logos
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
‘The Universe is made of stories, not of atoms’: Muriel Rukeyser, American poet and political activist
Remember, short is better than long, simple is engaging than complex and less is always more. Use the ‘
Tags
E-Engaging-(Pathos)-Serotonin and Endorphins
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process. Short, honest and appealing anecdotes can help in connecting and engaging a recruiter, making him decide in your favour
Ethos
By
The emotional connections that stories make are engaging and lasting. Storytelling persuades listeners to be more attentive. Those who understand the power of stories do their best to expand their outlook and come out of their shells.
the
09/01/2025
An interview is a conversation between two or more people with the primary objective of judging an applicant’s attitude and knowledge. It is a complex process where oral communication, persuasion, negotiation and storytelling work in tandem to help the recruiter judge a candidate. The job of the candidate is to persuade the recruiter in his/her favour.
H-Honest-(Ethos)-Oxytocin
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
The writer is Pooja Khanna, Manager Career Services, UPES
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
As an employability coach
We all have trunks full of stories; we just have to reflect and collect them on paper
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
storytelling
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
(Appeal to emotions using personal stories): The anecdotes of personal triumphs and tribulations engage the listener. It helps to build trust, which is an underlining factor in decision making. Whether the recruiter can trust you with their work depends on your ability to build rapport and establish a connection. Storytelling can help in overcoming the bias of confirmation and selection.
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
(Personal Credibility/Authenticity): Using personal experiences in your stories helps recruiters assess your communication skills, judgment abilities and problem-solving approach.
job interviews
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Stories that follow Aristotle’s principle of Ethos, Pathos and Logos are interesting and impactful:
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Published 17/06/2020
SHE’ model of answering any interview question
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024
Pooja Khanna