For entrepreneurs seeking funds for their businesses, it can be difficult to find investors and venture capitalists who are willing to look beyond the risks and provide some financial cover.
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Soon after the PUBG ban, Delhi-based Winzo Games received USD 18 million in a Series B round of funding to boost its content pipeline and target mobile-first gamers. In the pre-series A round, AFK Gaming, an e-sports content platform, raised USD 200,000. Investors’ interest in the fantasy gaming market has also increased. MPL and Dream11 both raised USD 90 million and USD 225 million, respectively, with the latter receiving the tournament’s title sponsorship.
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Image credit: Unsplash
Observe.ai, a firm that develops AI-based transcription and analytics for contact centres, has secured USD 54 million in Series B financing. Yellow Messenger and Vernacular AI are two other prominent conversational firms that have secured Series B and Series A funding, respectively.
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
When they do find them, however, getting the right amount of money from them to invest in their companies can be even harder.
Toppr (approximately INR 350 crore) and Vedantu (about INR 730 crore) were two other major firms that obtained funding. Several additional small and large edtech businesses raised financing in Series A and Series B rounds over the past two to three months.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
The restriction on TikTok, a popular short video platform, has been beneficial for Indian app developers. Chingari, Mitron, and Roposo are just a few of the platforms that have experienced rapid growth. The Indian government has also supported them with their “Vocal for Local” campaign. Due to the high demand for these indigenous apps, firms have rushed in to invest in them.
Education is one of the areas in India that has taken a long time to catch up with technology. The pandemic proved to be a watershed event in that edtech thrived as physical classrooms closed. With schools shut for months, lessons were delivered online to students.
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Venture capitalists are careful with their investment funds for a myriad of reasons. However, despite the inherent risks, financiers invest in innovative enterprises partly in the hope that these ventures could soon become the next big thing.
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Tech firms that assist their consumers in mapping their demand are also a hit with investors. Infilect, a business that uses AI and Image Recognition to assist the retail industry gain better insight into store operations, omnichannel sales, and in-store merchandising, just secured a pre-series A round of funding. Entropik, another firm that utilizes AI to help marketers understand their clients, earned USD 8 million in a Series A investment in September.
While Mitron and Trell raised USD 5 million and USD 11.4 million in Series A, respectively, Chingari raised an unknown sum in three days. The money received was to be used for product development and staffing. ShareChat, a regional language networking platform based in Bengaluru, recently raised USD 40 million.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Over the past year, edtech powerhouses like Byju’s and Unacademy have received millions of dollars in funds and gone on acquisition sprees to extend their dominion in this area. Unacademy, situated in Bengaluru, went on to join the exclusive unicorn club after raising USD 150 million from Softbank and others during this period.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
Staying home for months during multiple lockdowns has led to a noticeable increase in screen usage among Indians. Gaming applications make up a portion of this. Furthermore, the Indian government’s ban on 38 Chinese gaming applications, including PUBG, has prompted indigenous venture capital companies to focus on domestic gaming businesses.
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
Listed below are some of the sectors and industries which are of huge interest to investors currently, especially in the aftermath of the pandemic:
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
Edtech
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
UPES Editorial Team
With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Fourth Industrial Revolution ushering in an ever-increasing use of technology, it’s no surprise that many venture capital funds are directed to software companies. Apart from these four categories, telemedicine and fintech businesses have also seen an increased demand and funding.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Hard Tech
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Given the popularity of gaming in India, Lumikai, a Delhi-based venture capital firm, has formed a new fund to give early-stage finance to some of the country’s popular gaming firms.
Online gaming
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Published 26/05/2022
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
Social Media Apps
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
The first step of any entrepreneurial journey is knowledge. UPES School of Business offers programs such as MBA (Start Up & Entrepreneurship) – Business Innovation and MBA (Start Up & Entrepreneurship) – Incubators & Accelerators that give learners an edge in the competitive world of start-ups. These programs provide a distinctive platform for students to pursue their management education and start their own venture through the newly-established start-up incubation cell at UPES Runway. To enroll, click here.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML)-powered technology firms, particularly B2B, have witnessed a spurt in interest from corporate clients due to businesses having to alter their strategies during the pandemic. As a consequence, these technology enterprises have become a lucrative industry for investors.
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name