+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
Machine Learning (ML): ML is widely used in various domains, including natural language processing, computer vision, healthcare, finance, and more. Applications include recommendation systems, image recognition, and speech recognition.
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
The writer is Dr. Kingshuk Srivastava, UPES School of Computer Science
Please enter email address
Generative AI: Generative AI models are trained using unsupervised learning techniques. They learn to generate data by observing and capturing the patterns and statistics of the training data. For example, a generative adversarial network (GAN) is a common framework used in generative AI.
19/09/2024
In summary, while both generative AI and machine learning are subsets of artificial intelligence, they have different focuses and applications. Machine learning is primarily used for predictive and classification tasks, whereas generative AI is used for creating new data and content that mimics human-generated data.
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Generative AI: Generative AI is commonly used in creative applications, such as generating art, music, or fictional text. It is also used in data augmentation, style transfer, and creating realistic deepfake content.
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
Examples:
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Machine Learning (ML): Machine learning is a broader field that encompasses a variety of techniques for training models to perform specific tasks without being explicitly programmed. ML can be used for tasks such as classification, regression, clustering, and more. It is often used for predictive modelling and decision-making.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
Training:
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways. One of the very recent tools available to us, which has changed the way we work, is “Chat GPT”. This tool has created a lot of commotion in the way we operate every day. The model it operates on is called a Generative model. One needs to understand the basic difference between the now-normal concept of Machine Learning and the Generative model.
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Dr. Kingshuk Srivastava
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Machine Learning (ML): In ML, models are typically trained on labelled datasets to learn patterns and make predictions or classifications. It involves supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning.
Machine Learning (ML): Examples of ML techniques include linear regression, decision trees, random forests, support vector machines, and deep learning with neural networks.
Machine Learning (ML): ML models typically output predictions or classifications based on input data. For example, a spam filter classifies emails as spam or not based on their content.
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Published 10/11/2023
Please enter mobile number
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Purpose:
Generative AI: Examples of generative AI models include GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), VAEs (Variational Autoencoders), and Transformers used in text generation, like GPT-3.
Output:
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Generative AI: Generative AI focuses on creating data, typically in the form of images, text, audio, or other media. It aims to generate new content that resembles human-created data. Generative AI models are used for tasks like image generation, text generation, and artistic creation.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Applications:
Generative AI and machine learning are related fields within artificial intelligence, but they serve different purposes and have distinct characteristics. Let’s explore the differences between them:
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Generative AI: Generative AI models produce new data samples that are not present in the training dataset. For instance, a text-based generative AI might produce human-like paragraphs of text, or an image-based generative AI can create images of imaginary animals.
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024