Tata Motors
Project Associate
As a fresher, you will most likely be handling leadership roles. MBA will give you an edge over B.Tech graduates with better management skills in addition to technical skills.
+91
Career options after MBA include corporate job, Gov’t job, or entrepreneurship.
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Flipkart
Investment Banking
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
Entrance Exams
Oracle
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Business Systems
MBA Career
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Eligibility
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Data Analytics
Job Opportunities after MBA
Please enter email address
Hospitality
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
Management Consulting
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
Marketing
MBA
27/08/2024
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Private Equity
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Conclusion
Entrepreneurship
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
M-Tech Candidates
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Information System Management
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Facebook
2. Career Opportunities: Navigating the Professional Landscape
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
Top Companies in India that Recruit
Disciplines Covered
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Human Resource
Finance
Criteria
Mobile Number
Top MBA Recruiting
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Mahindra & Mahindra
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
M.Tech.
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
Google
Intuit
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Earth Sciences
Maruti Suzuki
Companies in India
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
Types
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
BBA, B-Tech, or any Bachelor’s
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Government Job
With an M.Tech. degree, you step into roles demanding technical expertise. Think research and development, software engineering, and innovation hubs. Industries like IT, academia, and research eagerly embrace M.Tech. graduates as the architects of technological progress.
Regular & Correspondence Programs
Depending on the career choice and the organization you choose to work for, the salary of an M.Tech. ranges between 3 lac p.a. to 10 lac p.a.
26/07/2024
Coaching
Business Consultancy
Correspondence Programs
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Career options after M.Tech. include teaching, corporate job, Gov’t job, or pursuing Ph.D.
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
Regular, Executive, as well as
Corporate Job
-- None --
And various other disciplines.
Various gov’t organizations like DRDO, BEL, BHEL, HAL, SAIL, etc offer lucrative job opportunities to M.Tech graduates.
In the grand M.Tech. vs. MBA narrative, there's no universal answer. Your decision should resonate with your aspirations and the canvas of your future. As you embark on this odyssey, remember, the path is yours to chart, and success is the destination. May your post-B.Tech. chapter be as thrilling as a tech thriller and as strategic as a business saga!
--None--
Bio-Engineering
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large. Choosing the right degree for higher education plays an important role in having a successful. It is important to analyse every aspect of the degrees to choose what’s best for you. This blog is your guide to navigating this critical choice, dissecting the M.Tech. vs. MBA dilemma through the lens of MBA course and M.tech. course, career opportunities, and nuanced considerations.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Health Care
Both MBA and M.Tech. lead to lucrative careers
Comparing Career Prospects
Published 03/07/2024
UPES Editorial Team
MBA graduates are the captains of the corporate ship. They venture into management roles, consulting, finance, and even entrepreneurship. The MBA skill set revolves around decision-making, strategic planning, and leadership – the pillars of successful business navigation.
Bio-Sciences
Intel Technology
Aerospace Engineering
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Finance and Banking
M-Tech
M.Tech. Career
Job Opportunities after M-TECH
IT Sector
International Business
Academician
Please enter last name
When it comes to educational structure, we can not compare MBA course and M.tech. course as the domain of both the degrees is different. MBA focuses on mastering the art of business symphony whereas, M.tech. delve into technological abyss. M.tech. curriculum is consisting of, artificial intelligence, and specialized domains like cybersecurity or data science. It's the playground for those who want to craft the codes that power our digital future. On the contrary, MBA courses includes finance and marketing, organizational behaviour and strategic management
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Samsung
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Hero Motocorp
LinkedIn
Business Administration
GATE
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
In the end, whether you code the algorithms shaping our digital tapestry or craft the strategies steering corporate narratives, embrace the journey with passion, purpose, and the knowledge that the odyssey is yours to shape.
24/01/2025
Email Address
Course Duration
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
Manufacturing & Modeling
The salary of an MBA ranges between 3 lac p.a to 10 lac p.a.
Amazon
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Degree via 10+2+3 system
Teaching can be rewarding for those who love to explain things and can adapt themselves to student needs.
B-Tech/B.S./B.E./B.ARCH
State Bank of India
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Testing, Implementation, and Maintenance
CAT
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
Computer Science
privacy policy
M.Tech. vs. MBA: The In-Depth Analysis
Insurance
2 Years
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?