Lesson 4: Leading from the heart and leaning in to listen to every voice: Several studies indicate that as listeners, women leaders tend to create an ecosystem of trust, value, psychological comfort as they respond to non-verbal cues, are more compassionate, understanding and are able to get more perspectives on situations and have a more wider view.
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jan/19/jacinda-ardern-resigns-as-prime-minister-of-new-zealand
Published 03/03/2023
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
“Kindness, and not being afraid to be kind, or to focus on, or be really driven by empathy,” she has said of what is at the heart of her leadership style. “I think one of the sad things that I’ve seen in political leadership is – because we have placed so much emphasis on notions of assertiveness and strength over time – that we have probably assumed that it means you can’t have those other qualities of kindness and empathy. And yet, when you think about all the big challenges that we face in the world, that’s probably the quality we need the most.”
Course Type
In fact in 2021, Mayer launched the NFT Boss Beauty collection on the New York Stock Exchange for the first time ever, sold off the collection within hours of launch and found many keen investors for its business venture. The NFT collection focused on  female avatars of impactful female personalities like Black American poet Maya Angelou, artist Frida Kahlo among others, which drew a lot of attention.
Please enter email address
Mary Spio, the founder and CEO of CEEK VR was raised in Ghana and was 16 when her parents saved up enough money to send her to the United States. Since then, she has served in the Air Force and created content and technologies for global titans such as Boeing.
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
Arden has been praised for her warmth and empathetic approach as a leader and she was also ranked as the most popular poll PM in 100 years, in NZ.
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Eventually, leadership is not about creating a distinction between the genders or a competition to decide who fares better. Ideal leadership is where it doesn’t matter whether you are a man or a woman. Rather the biggest learning that new female leaders are reflecting is that leadership is not just growth of the self as a human or as a professional, but it’s about seamlessly joining hearts and minds for creating a future of one’s choice.
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Lesson 3: Diversity, Equality and Inclusion matters, but it’s important to lift each other up too: New age female leaders are slowly turning things around by leaning on and supporting other female co-workers and raising them up through learning and development initiatives, acknowledgment, valuing them, understanding their talents and comfort and create a secure and psychologically safe environment.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
In her journey as NZ’s youngest and the first female Prime Minister since 2017, Arden unfolded the happiness budget, led the world in responding swiftly to Covid-19 by locking down her country quickly, taking a 20 percent pay cut to support those who lost their jobs or had scaled down salaries. She also became the world’s first leader to go on maternity leave while in office, returning to work six weeks later. Ardern formally introduced her daughter Neve to the world by taking her to a United Nations conference on September 28, 2018. In doing so, she sent out a powerful message about women in leadership roles. “I am not the first woman to multi-task,” she said during an interview on Radio New Zealand. “I am not the first woman to work and have a baby – there are many women who have done this before.”
Please Select Course Type
https://www.vogue.in/culture-and-living/content/jacinda-ardern-resigns-7-defining-characteristics-of-the-new-zealand-pms-leadership-style
A subscriber email already exists.
In a media interview, she recounted a story about early space teams gathering around to figure out how to create a gravity-defying pen to bring into space, when a housecleaner overheard and said, “Have you thought about a pencil?” Spio says that’s what she thinks about when she’s building her business.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
When asked in one of her interviews how she would like her leadership to be remembered, Arden answered, “As someone who always tried to be kind.”
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
Shailja Katyal Verma
Lessons: How women leaders are bringing the ‘Leadership Cool’ quotient to work
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Author Jacqueline Carter speaks of compassionate wisdom and vulnerability, which can drive a huge impact. She defines compassionate wisdom as the ability to take tough and appropriate decisions in the most humane way. By bringing their vulnerable or ‘human’ side to work, women leaders drive more engagement, transparency, motivation and productivity.
shakti
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
In a letter to the workforce and investors, she assured everyone that she would save the dying empire by taking some tough business decisions, selling off some investments, and focusing on expansion. Within two years, there was a turnaround as CCD expanded across the country, flourished in lockdown, grew coffee beans in their own plantation-— these are also in high demand overseas — and revived fortunes by clocking huge profits.
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
In another note written to all stakeholders and employees recently, Malavika declared that “they were “able to achieve this unbelievable feat in two years without any favours from any lender, and she will not only repay every single penny back to them but also revive Cafe Coffee Day.”
--None--
Lesson 1: Being imperfect, authentic and empathetic is the new perfect: Jacinda Arden has underscored that it’s okay to be human and own up to your vulnerabilities and step up to do the right thing for people in a situation, instead of being ego driven and focusing on what benefits the leader only. She has always been very approachable, consistent and genuine in her communication
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
Image by Freepik
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
UPES Editorial Team
Boss Beauties has worked with multiple brands including Hugo Boss, Mattel, Neiman Marcus among others. The three million dollars raised by the sales of this collection will further fund mentorship programs for women and Mayer, in of her interviews, said, “If you look at what drives us, it’s really our passion for helping women be everything they want to be,” Mayer said. “They can break the glass ceilings, they can make history and do anything in their life, in their career.”
Women empowerment
effective leadership
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
This development has drawn praise and admiration across the globe with one of her own government officials who stated on his twitter handle, “Jacinda Arden has shown the world how to lead with intellect and strength. She has demonstrated that empathy and insight are powerful leadership qualities.”
Women are underscoring that today’s leadership  is no longer about being the most authoritative or powerful voice in the room. Rather, it’s about leading people by being unabashedly vulnerable and human. Unabashedly vulnerable and totally cool with mentoring others while leading with EQ and IQ, in  a cut-throat world. These are the new female leaders on the block, who are unafraid of failures, willing to put others ahead and are fine with moving on, when they feel the need.
https://www.scoopwhoop.com/women/how-malavika-hegde-grieving-widow-saved-ccd/
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
These are the concluding words by former New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Arden who resigned earlier this month. Typically, no one would expect a national leader to unabashedly bare their vulnerability, admit burnout and take such a bold decision, of this proportion. Even as everyone is reeling from the unexpected resignation, this signals how women leaders are redefining the rules of leadership and there are critical lessons to be learnt from them.
A 2020 research published in Frontiers asserted that women have a higher degree of empathy than men. Female leaders can help improve the understanding between leadership and employees and take steps toward employee well-being.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Lesson 2: Defying failure and negativity to shatter the glass ceiling: From being broken to breaking the record of being one of modern India’s most compelling success stories in business, Café Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd.’s CEO Malavika Hegde has shown how failure can be the greatest teacher in the darkest hour. Unable to tackle a Rs 7200 crore debt, her husband VG Sidhartha committed suicide. Hegde took over as CEO of Café Coffee Day amid skepticism about the company’s future and advised her not to bet on a losing battle. But she stuck to her guns and dived right in. It wasn’t an easy road with the jobs of hundreds on employees on the line, near bankruptcy situation, and the pressure of facing international giants like Starbucks, Barista and others.
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
According to bestselling author of the book The Future Leader, Jacob Morgan, only 8 percent leaders are good listeners. “Leaders of the future must be translators, which means that they are great listeners and communicators. I partnered with LinkedIn to survey nearly 14,000 employees around the world and only 8% of employees reported that their mid and senior-level leaders are practicing this skill “very well.” Clearly there is lots of room for improvement,” he mentioned in an interview.
Women's day
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
For many who think NFT is a male dominated domain in metaverse, using her own example and resources, a woman has been raising an army of like-minded talented women to bust this myth. Lisa Mayer is the founder of women-led initiative for artists and mission-driven NFT project Boss Beauties. She has rolled out scholarships and mentorship programs not just for Next Gen young women but working mothers as well who want to spread their wings in leadership, technology, and creative domains. This is via her non-profit organisation My Social Canvas, which has changed many lives for a decade, now.
References:
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name