Enhanced Skills
+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
With a degree in design, students can start their design businesses and work for themselves. They will learn about branding, marketing, and business management, which can be applied to any entrepreneurial endeavour.
Additionally, the versatile skills gained through a B.Des. degree allow graduates to explore entrepreneurship, freelance work, or other design roles too.
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
The Bachelor of Design degree can really be the life changing step for students. A design degree is the first brick laid for your career foundation. Before pursuing this degree, it is important to understand what it holds for you.
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
21/11/2024
Course Type
Fashion design
UX designing
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
Building Strong Portfolio
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
*
Professional Networking Opportunities
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Builds a Strong Portfolio
Bachelor of Design career options provide a wide range of job opportunities in fields such as
Trending Post
Develops Entrepreneurial Skills
Education industry and so on.
Interior design
A good portfolio is the backbone of a designer, an outstanding portfolio not only enhances your profile but also helps you in grabbing some best job opportunities. while pursuing the degree students get multiple assignments that they can add into their portfolio and standout in the world of fashion.
Collaboration and Interdisciplinary Approach
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
A B.des course imparts knowledge of new-age design practices, industry trends, and technological advancements. Even academicians often provide students with valuable insights and exposure to the real-world design landscape. Furthermore, this advanced industry-relevant knowledge equips graduates with a competitive edge and helps them adapt to the evolving demands of the design industry.
Mobile Number
Bachelor of Design programme highly focused on hands-on learning and designing skills development. Through this programme, students gain proficiency in design techniques, prototyping tools, and technical skills in industry-relevant design software. They learn to translate their ideas into tangible designs, create prototypes, and effectively communicate their design concepts to clients, collaborators, or users.
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
The Bachelor of Design degree is a crucible for innovation, blending creative vision with technical mastery. It equips students with a design-centric perspective, fostering skills that transcend traditional boundaries and find applications in myriad industries. From the precision of product design to the aesthetics of digital media, B. Des graduates are the vanguards of a design-driven future, poised to infuse creativity into the global tapestry of technology and commerce.
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Practical Skill Development
Please Select Course Type
Opportunities for Collaboration
A subscriber email already exists.
Higher Earning Potential
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
A B.des. course is majorly focused on providing specialized education in design disciplines such as Fabric Manufacturing, Sketching, E-tailing, graphic design, Fashion Promotion, user experience, etc. Moreover, a Bachelor of Design degree equips students with the technical skills, design principles, and creative problem-solving abilities needed to excel in their chosen field.
26/07/2024
Advanced Design Knowledge
Creative and Critical Thinking Ability
Design consultancy
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
The Bachelor of Design programme facilitates networking opportunities with professionals and organizations in the design industry. Regular Guest lectures, workshops, design conferences, and industry collaborations provide students with chances to interact with established designers and industry influencers.
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Designers are often tasked with solving complex problems. Pursuing a degree in design helps students develop critical thinking skills, which can be applied to any situation.
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
Embark on the epic voyage of design education, where we unearth the hidden talents of every budding designer, moulding the future with each pixel, line, and pattern.
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
B.des. course often foster collaboration and interdisciplinary interactions. Students work in team projects, or workshops together with peers from different design disciplines, and engage in cross-disciplinary activities. This exposure allows students to gain insights from diverse perspectives, gain valuable creative ideas from peers. Along with this, developing collaborative, leadership and communication skills.
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
With a degree in design, students can work in a wide range of industries, including fashion, architecture, web design, graphic design, and product design.
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Enhances Problem-Solving Skills
Please enter last name
A degree in design provides students with opportunities to develop a strong portfolio of work that they can showcase to potential employers or clients.
Bachelor of design program is highly focused on hands-on learning and designing skills development. Through this programme
05/08/2024
Published 07/07/2024
Knowledge of Industry Advancement and Trends
Design is often a collaborative process, and pursuing a degree in design allows students to work with other students and industry professionals to develop their skills and create innovative designs.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
Product designing
A Bachelor of Design degree is a beacon in the creative journey, illuminating a path where passion for design translates into tangible achievements. It’s a celebration of human creativity, opening doors to a world where artistic endeavours are not just admired but also lead to greater financial stability. This degree is a bridge between dreams and reality, empowering designers to craft a future that’s both personally satisfying and economically rewarding.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Graphic designing
Related Articles
Career Scope with a bachelor’s in design degree
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
B.Des. programme puts emphasis on the development of creative and critical thinking skills. Students are engaged in analysing problems, conducting research, and conceptualizing innovative design solutions. Furthermore, students are encouraged to think outside the box, explore new ideas, and push the boundaries of design conventions.
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
Career Prospects and Versatility
privacy policy
What a Bachelor of Design Degree Holds for You
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity. The journey through a Bachelor of Design (B. Des.) program is more than an academic pursuit; it’s a gateway to a realm where aesthetics converges with utility, where visionary ideas are interwoven with tangible realities, and where each brushstroke contributes to the narrative of innovation. According to the All-India Survey on Higher Education, there has been a staggering 92.5% increase in B. Des.  enrolments over the past decade, signalling a soaring demand for design mavens.
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name