+91
We need to also explore what happens to people who lose jobs to automation and a large tranche still may not upskill for several reasons. There may be a disproportionate world divided between the haves and have-nots. Do we need inclusive design innovations that take these realities into consideration?
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
The writer is Manas Ranjan Mishra, Professor, Industrial and Product Design, UPES School of Design
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
As innovation and design are continuing to come together, there is also the danger of misuse. Unfortunately, that is an inescapable reality and instead of stemming this tidal wave, it’s important to use the very same designs and innovations to combat negative and harmful aspects that are bound to arise.  Therefore, a shift in thinking is necessary wherein inclusion, sustainability and accessibility are the prime factors driving the industry, in our fight for resources and eventually, survival. Disruption is great. But the real deal is when you disrupt for all — for the better.
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
Last Name
But unlocking meaningful & impactful change that creates equality, inclusion and accessibility is critical to drawing a future that is safe and secure. The collision of the two worlds of design and innovation is, therefore, crucial to catalyzing this. This also means that the equation of people-people-profits-planet must undergo change and the industry must look at it from the lens of people-planet-profits for good.
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
Published 18/08/2023
UPES Editorial Team
In a nutshell, the core of design — design thinking — understands issues, makes space for divergent thinking, maps processes and solutions for them and also allows individuals to take risks. But how do you fill the gap between imagination and implementation? By developing frameworks and support systems that define and check technologically fueled growth and are willing to push for the ‘greater good.’ This also means, a conscious checking on dominance by a single player and ensuring a level playing field for everyone.
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
Let me circle back to my original question. The days of design being limited to just aesthetic appeal, or a certain form, are over. Today, design is a powerful tool that creates user-centric experiences, solves problems swiftly and presents multiple scenarios to a singular challenge thereby giving consumers or end users to hold sway over the industry and push trends. And the ingress of AI technologies fulfills that need and both the industry and organizations are raking in huge profits which may be relatively short-term as these new-age technologies keep getting upscaled by newer or more established players—hence sparking off cut-throat competition wherein questions are being raised about their ethical implications and the shift of the human race towards maximizing machine dependency. But we need to introspect on whether we really want lives and workplaces that are so seamless that humans become irrelevant and redundant.
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted. With the clash of multiple perspectives, ideologies and the changing environment, it’s but natural that creativity is also undergoing a shift as design and innovation are fusing to create futuristic scenarios. Creativity is a process and a skill powered by knowledge that drives these values and it should be resolving real-world problems. And I’m quite excited to see how the industry takes this ahead.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Manas Ranjan Mishra