school of design
+91
Advancement in technology has opened a plethora of possibilities for Communication Design. This course enables a student to ramp up apps, augmented reality, and virtual reality. Now that we are embracing Metaverse, this course has assumed relevance like never before.
12/09/2024
Published 20/09/2022
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
Once you complete your degree in Graphic and Communication Design, an exciting world of opportunities awaits you. You get to work in modern design studios which are vibrant and stress-free as compared to corporate offices with strict work cultures.
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
You can land a stable job in a multinational firm, and even work on marketing campaigns with local businesses. If you have in-demand graphic design skills, then you can freelance by cherry picking your own clients.
Trending Post
Communication Design is all about honing the technique of storytelling. Notwithstanding its mediums, the tools and the methods, the emphasis is on constructing and presenting a story. This discipline seeks to develop a rapport between the receiver and the message.
Communication design is basically a generalised field that helps you develop your professional competence on developing messaging strategies and campaigns. Graphic design, on the other hand, is a specialized discipline which focuses on creating key visual elements.
For beginners, the design business has a huge potential for job growth. Candidates who complete graphic design courses can work in a variety of industries, including interior design, animation, fashion, and others.
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Aditya Mukherjee
Tags
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
These industries are going to create more job opportunities in the coming years as no other. The interior design and fashion retail industries are expected to rise by 8.5 and 9.7 per cent, respectively.
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
For the creatively inclined, graphic design is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world.
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
A creative communication designer would use design thinking and the elements of design to strategically plan a brand message for a large audience. They choose the nuances of the information contained in that message. They also take a call as to where and when to deliver the message to the target audience.
The role of a communication designer is to use these visual elements seamlessly to engage the target audience through cogent messages.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
The skills that you get to learn in
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
Some of the most popular career options after pursuing this discipline are: Graphic designer, web designer, publication designer, animator/motion graphics, UI artist, user experience designer, illustrator, art director, game designer, video editor, filmmaker.
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
If you want to let your creative juices flow and make the world sit up and take note of your imaginative leap, then a career in graphics and communication design is your best choice. The world becomes your oyster.
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Creative studios these days value individuality with relaxed dress codes, flexible working hours and quirky workspaces. Working as part of a creative team is invigorating and real fun, and for the self-employed designer, there is the option of sharing work, feedback, and advice with fellow designers.
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
Why study Graphics Design
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
05/08/2024
There is also no dearth of internship opportunities, which is the best way to acquire hands-on skills while cutting one’s teeth in real-world applications and techniques. Interns should display innovation and entrepreneurial drive besides having sufficient skills in business, art, technology, and project management.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
A degree in Graphics and Communication Design offers a spectrum of choices for aspiring candidates.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Image credit: Pexels
Benefits of Communication Design course
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
Career paths for Graphics and Communication Design graduates
In the coming decades, traditional graphic design fields such as book design, journalism will go out of vogue, yielding place to specialised skills such as video editing, computer systems design, animation, and mobile advertising.
privacy policy
will turn you into an expert at typography, image design, layout design, branding, research methods, digital design, web-based design, photography, and graphics technology.
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name