7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
MBA (Media and Entertainment Management):
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
+91
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
Published 10/07/2024
UPES is one of the best universities in India that offers specialized and industry-oriented MBA programs. UPES offers 16 MBA specializations that cater to the specific domains and industries and provide you with the relevant knowledge and skills that are required for the respective fields. UPES also offers a global program that allows you to pursue one year of your MBA degree at an overseas partner university. UPES also offers an experiential learning approach that emphasizes on learning by doing and solving real-world problems and challenges. UPES also offers a holistic and integrated curriculum that covers not only the core and elective courses, but also the personality enhancement and professional development courses.
15/10/2024
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
First Name
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Why Choose MBA at UPES?
MBA (Financial Management):
MBA (Metaverse and Web 3.0):
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
UPES offers 16 MBA specializations, such as Strategy and Consulting, Digital Business, Business Analytics, Oil and Gas Management, Power Management, International Business, Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Aviation Management, Metaverse and Web 3.0, and more.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
MBA (International Business):
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Conclusion
MBA (Power Management):
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
UPES offers various opportunities for the students to engage in live projects, case studies, simulations, internships, and industry visits. These opportunities help the students to apply their knowledge and skills to practical situations, and to develop critical thinking, problem-solving, and decision-making skills.
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
MBA (Healthcare Management)
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
MBA (Agri-Business Management):
MBA (Aviation Management
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
UPES stands for University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, and it is a private university located in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. UPES was established in 2003, and it is recognized by UGC and accredited by NAAC.  UPES has a state-of-the-art campus that spans over 44 acres and has world-class facilities and infrastructure. UPES has a faculty of over 500 members, who are experts in their respective fields and have rich academic and industry experience. UPES has a student strength of over 15,000, who come from diverse backgrounds and cultures. UPES has a strong alumni network of over 18,000, who are working in reputed organizations across the globe.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
As mentioned earlier, MBA at UPES offers 16 MBA specialisations that cater to the students’ specific interests and career goals. Each specialization has its own curriculum, faculty, and industry partners, and provides the students with the relevant knowledge and skills that are required for the respective domain. The list of the MBA specialisations at UPES is as follows:
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
MBA (Global Program) 1+1 1 Year in UPES Campus + 1 Year in Overseas University
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
MBA (Oil and Gas Management)
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
Last Name
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey. MBA stands for Master of Business Administration, and it is one of the most sought-after and prestigious courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management. But how do you choose the right MBA program that can suit your interests and goals? How do you decide which MBA specialization to opt for that can give you an edge over others in the job market? How do you find the best MBA college that can offer you quality education and exposure?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
Today, we will share with you the list of MBA specializations at UPES, one of the leading universities in India that offers specialized and industry-oriented MBA programs.
MBA is one of the best postgraduate courses that can help you to boost your career prospects and enhance your skills. MBA offers you a wide range of specializations and electives that can suit your interests and goals. MBA also offers you a global program that can give you an international exposure and experience. MBA also offers you an experiential learning approach that can give you a practical and hands-on exposure to the real-world problems and challenges. MBA also offers you a holistic and integrated curriculum that can give you a personal and professional development.
04/10/2024
UPES offers a global program that allows the students to pursue one year of their MBA degree at UPES campus and one year at an overseas partner university. This program gives the students an opportunity to gain international exposure and experience, and to learn from the best practices and cultures of different countries.
MBA at UPES is one of the best MBA programs in India that offers a unique and innovative curriculum that combines theoretical knowledge with practical applications. MBA at UPES is designed to meet the current and future needs of the industry and society, and to prepare the students for the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century. MBA at UPES offers the following advantages:
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
MBA (Public Policy and Administration):
--None--
MBA (Marketing Management):
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
MBA (Human Resource Management)
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
MBA (Operations Management):
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
MBA (Business Analytics) - KPMG:
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
What is UPES?
UPES also offers various clubs, societies, and activities that encourage the students to explore and express their talents and interests, and to participate in the social and cultural life of the campus.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
MBA (Entrepreneurship and Family Business):
MBA (Logistics and Supply Chain Management):
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
MBA (Strategy and Consulting) – KPMG