5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Depending on what you wish to do with your career, you can choose between a lawyer and an advocate. However, you become either, you must have a degree of law! To get closer to your dreams, you can enrol in
. Both
+91
Educate clients on their Constitutional rights
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
Criminal
Specialisation
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Observe court etiquette and good conduct
Lawyers are legal experts who have recently graduated from law school and do not have the essential experience. They are aware of the law, including statutes, rules and regulations, and legal precedents. However, when it comes to experience, the lawyer's years of court practice are zero.
Labour
B.B.A. LL. B
Emerging Legal Specializations: What to Focus on During Your LL.B
Scope of Practise
Course Type
Difference in responsibilities
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
B.A. LL. B
*
Conclusion
Experience:
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
Call Me
Conduct thorough legal research concerning the case
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
03/01/2025
When it comes to experience, Advocates are the bigger sharks! They are more experienced from practising in multiple judicial settings throughout their careers. They are adept in representing their clients in the court of law and turning court’s judgements in their client’s favour.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Most lawyers and advocates opt to specialize in a specific area of law while in law school or after graduating. Individuals who practice law can provide legal advice and support in any area of specialization. Some of the most common specialisations include:
Trending Post
Lawyers are qualified to provide legal advice to individuals and organizations, including companies, colleges, and universities. In addition to offering guidance, they draft essential documents needed for legal processes. However, they are not permitted to practice in a court of law unless they meet specific requirements. Advocates, on the other hand, specialize in representing and advocating for their clients in court. Lawyers can also practice in court if they enrol with a state bar council. To do so, they must first register and then pass the All-India Bar Exam (AIBE), which qualifies them to represent and defend clients in court.
Represent the Client in the Court of Law
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Difference between a Lawyer & Advocate
Mobile Number
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
22/11/2024
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
Fees & Salary
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
Specialisations:
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
The Fee of an Advocate depends on his social standing and his expertise. However, his fee is more than a lawyer because he represents his client in the court of law and fights the case on his behalf which a lawyer cannot do.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Work in close collaboration with the police and the investigators
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
Become future-ready with our Law programs
Fees and Salary:
26/07/2024
Last Name
Conduct research and accumulate legal evidence in favour of client
Have you ever found yourself in a courtroom drama (real or Netflix) and thought, "Wait, aren’t lawyers and advocates the same thing?" Well, spoiler alert: they’re not! Though we often find people using these two terms interchangeably, the difference is significant! EVERY Advocate is a Lawyer, but every Lawyer is NOT an Advocate. Read on to decode the differences, the similarities, and more in detail.
Attend Trials and Hearings in the Court
Table of Contents:
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Book the calendar for interviews, assessments, and meetings with clients
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
A Lawyer is a person with a law degree like B.A. LL.B. or BB.A. LL.B., and eligible to give advice but not represent a client in a court of law unless he is registered with the Bar Council of a state. An Advocate on the other hand is registered with the Bar Council of a state and represents a client in a court of law. The term "lawyer" refers to anyone in the legal profession, including solicitors, barristers, and attorneys. An advocate is a professional who specializes in representing clients in legal procedures.
Real Estate
-- None --
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
Constitutional
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
Published 20/12/2024
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Personal Injury and more
Taxation
Please enter last name
and
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Conduct a case review and give legal advice to clients
offer excellent career prospects and opportunities for growth. The key is to align your choice with your interests, long-term career goals, and strengths. Whether you’re looking to work in a multinational company or practice law independently, both degrees have the potential to set you on a path to success. APPLY TODAY!
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
The responsibilities of a lawyer are listed below:
Help the police and the investigators in preparing well before standing in front of the court
Environmental
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
For a Lawyer:
Differences in terms of Responsibilities:
Immigration
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
The responsibilities of an advocate are listed below:
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES, Dehradun’s law programs
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Our counsellors are just a click away.
Provide the court with the necessary evidence to reach a conclusion in a legal situation
Experience
The starting salary of both the lawyer and the advocate is 1 lakh. It can go up to 9-11 lacs as average salary per annum.
For an Advocate:
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
Family
14/08/2024
Difference between Lawyer and Advocate?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Intellectual Property
privacy policy
Corporate
Send notifications to authorities in case of any complaint against court officials
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
30/08/2024
Scope of Practise:
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022
Know More