So, what is the secret behind this solid success?
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
“Consistency, however, does not mean that you will not move with time. We do a lot of innovations to make our product contemporary. We have fully computerised systems in our cooperatives; digital payment of around INR 150 crore are made each day. Every farmer can see their transaction, veterinary services, and other benefits on the mobile app. Every month, we come out with new products. Our supply chain is efficient, fast, and reliable,” he said.
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
https://www.facebook.com/amul.coop/
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
“Ultimately, the reason for Amul’s success is taking care of all the stakeholders of the supply chain. You work for the well-being of the supplier and the consumers, and you will earn more,” Sodhi said.
A 75-year-old dairy cooperative in India owned by 36 million milk producers clocked in a massive turnover of INR 53,000 crore in 2020. This figure was far greater compared to any of the country’s multinational corporations in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector. Despite the adverse market condition, Anand Milk Union Limited ‘Amul’ managed to maintain its rising streak.
Course Type
Please enter email address
“Consistency in four key areas: business structure and philosophy, product recipes and quality, communication, and human resource practices,” he emphasised.
An ‘Utterly Butterly Delicious’ recipe
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Amul has spent only 0.8% of its turnover on advertising in the last few years, mainly because of its umbrella branding strategy. Their product positioning, too, has not changed much. “We have been seeing ‘Utterly Butterly Delicious’ since 1976. In 1994, ‘The Taste of India’ tagline came; we see it like our surname. In 2000, we came up with ‘Amul doodh peeta hai India’,” he said.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
“The mandate given by my board is to buy the product at a price as high as possible and add value to all the raw materials at such a price that I am not leftover with any unsold stocks,” Sodhi revealed. Buying at maximum and selling at a reasonable cost by keeping minimum gross profit might not seem like an aggressive strategy, but it seems to have worked well for Amul in the competitive FMCG sector.
The umbrella marketing strategy
Trending Post
Another area where the cooperative has been consistent is in the recipe of the product. “The butter you eat today has had the same recipe it had in the 60s. When a food brand gets a majority market share and becomes the market leader, some manufacturers try to increase their profits and reduce the cost of production. The cost of production can be mainly reduced by replacing expensive, authentic ingredients with cheap, synthetic ones. In the case of dairy, it is very simple. You replace dairy fat with vegetable oil, and you make a profit. Amul has never changed simply to save the cost. We may have slightly altered the recipe based on the consumer taste, say, for example, reduce the amount of sugar, or increase another element, but fundamentally the ingredients remain the same. That is why, consumers have blind faith in our products,” Sodhi said.
Please enter first name
He credits the success of the organisation on their core value system, given by the founders – Mr. Tribhuvandas Patel and Dr. Verghese Kurien.
Leadership lessons from Amul
Mobile Number
The people behind Amul
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
Published 09/09/2021
A subscriber email already exists.
Usually, the name of a company brings to mind the image of the product. Amul, however, is equally famous for its product as well as its brand campaign.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
He added, “My board does not ask about the profits made; it asks about the price given to the farmers and the quality of the product. We are producer and consumer-friendly, which helps us compete with the best of the brands.”
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
Please enter mobile number
The reason? “This is the longest-running campaign. And we have spent peanuts on it. The advertising agency is given a brief, they make the creative, and put it out there. We see it when you see it. They do not need approval for any creative,” Sodhi explained.
How students benefit from conducting research at university
Dr. Verghese Kurien, founder-chairman of the GCMMF started the branding of Amul in the mid-50s. “At that time, not many would think about branding and advertising, but he invested in it and followed umbrella branding. Amul milk, cheese, ice cream, ghee – all under one brand. We do not have sub-brands like major multinational corporates mainly because of our ambitions. We believe it is better to nurture one brand. Our ‘Utterly Butterly Delicious’ campaign is over 56 years old. When we launched our butter, we did not have much money. So, we decided to have an inexpensive, yet, top of the market campaign,” he said.
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
There is also consistency in bringing the brand closer to the consumer. Amul is India’s largest single brand retailer with 9000 exclusive franchise stores.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
“If I had to explain in one word, it is consistency,” said Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of India’s largest dairy brand. He was speaking at a Pre-Semester Learning session organised by UPES School of Business.
According to Sodhi, “We have always had a dedicated, selfless, and visionary leadership. In the face of adversity, we have shown courage. A passion for the highest standards of excellence and innovation, commitment to farmers and consumers, supply chain efficiency, and a culture of innovation, keeps us ahead.”
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Amul’s one-of-a-kind business structure
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul’s business structure is unlike any other brand. “In each village, there are around 200 milk producers, mainly women, who come together to form a village dairy cooperative society. The district milk unions procure it from the society, check its quality and quantity, and make payment accordingly through an electronic system. These district unions then transport the milk to the nearest dairy plant. The state’s milk federation then takes charge,” Sodhi explained.
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Amul Picture Credit: Amul’s Faceboook Page
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
For the first 30-40 years, the marketing was primarily on billboards. Amul has never used a celebrity for their brand endorsement. When the brand does involve the name of a public figure in their campaign, they feel grateful, Sodhi said. “We get ‘thank you’ messages. Instead of charging us, they feel obliged.”
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Providing a stable price to millions of milk producers forms the core of Amul’s business philosophy. “We ensure that day-after-day, our farmers get the best price for their produce. Simultaneously, we provide nutritious dairy products made from the best ingredients at an affordable price to the consumers across India,” he said.
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
The fourth aspect is the people, who carry forward the legacy of the organisation. “For most of my senior colleagues, this was their first job. I have been in the company for the last 40 years now. I joined Amul immediately after college. We do not hire laterally; we only hire through campus from the best of the colleges,” Sodhi remarked.
Amul, based at Anand in Gujarat, is managed by the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF). Its establishment in 1946 spurred the White Revolution in India and played a pivotal role in turning the country from milk-deficient to the largest milk producer in the world.
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name