7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Media and Entertainment
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
Banking and Financial Services
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
MBA Marketing: $60,000 - $110,000 annually, with growth opportunities in product and brand leadership.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
12/09/2024
Digital Marketing
02/01/2025
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
Advertising
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
Industries to work
21/11/2024
Choose marketing if you’re a natural communicator or finance if you excel in numbers and analysis.
Course Type
Skills Acquired Through Programs
Key Aspects to Consider Before Choosing
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
Financial Planner
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
Analytical and quantitative skills
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
may include Digital Marketing, International Marketing, and Product Management.
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Product Manager
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Salary Comparison
Course Structure & Specialization
Published 13/12/2024
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Skills Acquired
Which Is Better?
Conclusion
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Industries to Work In
Call Me
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
Corporate Finance Departments
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages. This guide will delve into the differences, similarities, course structures, specializations, and career prospects to help you make an informed choice.
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Industry Trends:
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Average salaries:
Corporate Finance Manager
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
MBA graduates in both fields can pursue further education such as CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) or Ph.D. programs. Marketing professionals may opt for courses in market analytics or specialized certifications in digital marketing, while finance professionals might lean toward financial engineering or risk management certifications.
Digital marketing is growing rapidly, while finance roles are diversifying with the rise of fintech and sustainable finance.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Brand Manager
MBA Finance: $75,000 - $120,000 annually, with potential for much higher earnings in senior roles.
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
Both MBA programs share foundational business courses such as economics, management strategy, and organizational behavior. They are designed to build leadership and strategic thinking skills, vital for management-level positions.
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Strategic financial planning
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Brand Management
Career Paths for Marketing graduates:
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
According to industry data, the starting salary for graduates who have done their MBA in Finance is generally higher than that for MBA Marketing graduates. Finance roles, particularly in investment banking and private equity, often command higher pay due to the technical expertise required. However, experienced marketing professionals in strategic roles can earn competitive salaries, especially with the rise of digital marketing.
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
Data-driven decision-making
Future Career Scope and Prospects of Higher Studies
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Core Differences Between MBA Marketing and MBA Finance
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
Risk assessment
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
Interests and Strengths:
Career Goals:
Investment Banker
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
Specializations
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Table of Contents:
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
MBA Finance builds:
Please enter mobile number
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
Consumer Behavior
Core Differences & Similarities
Consumer Goods
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
Creative thinking
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
Communication and persuasion
Investment and Asset Management
MBA Marketing emphasizes:
Future Career Scope & higher studies
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance offer excellent career opportunities, but the choice ultimately depends on your interests, skill set, and long-term career goals. Whether you’re passionate about building brands or analysing balance sheets, each path has its unique benefits and challenges. Consider where your strengths lie, and which industry excites you more before making your decision.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Key Aspects to consider before choosing
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
MBA Marketing graduates often find roles in:
Marketing Director
How the university taught me the power of networking
Career Paths for Finance graduates:
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Financial Analyst
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
Retail
MBA Finance graduates typically work in:
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
+91
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sales Strategy
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Our counsellors are just a click away.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
Digital Marketing Specialist
UPES Admission Enquiry
Similarities Between MBA Marketing and MBA Finance
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
There isn’t a one-size-fits-all answer. If you are a creative thinker, enjoy working on branding and campaigns, and have a knack for understanding consumer needs, an MBA in Marketing may be your path. If you are detail-oriented, enjoy working with numbers and data, and aspire to work in high-stakes environments, an MBA in Finance could be your best bet.
14/02/2025
MBA in Marketing focuses on consumer behavior, market research, branding strategies, and digital marketing. It is ideal for those who are creative, strategic thinkers, and excellent communicators. On the other hand, MBA in Finance covers financial planning, investment analysis, risk management, corporate finance, and more, suited for analytical minds with a strong numerical aptitude.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Become future-ready with our Business programs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
MBA with specialization in Marketing often includes courses such as:
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Marketing offers creative, dynamic roles, while finance provides high-pressure, analytical jobs with significant financial rewards.
Prospects of Higher Studies:
Course Structure & Specializations Offered
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
Consulting Firms
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name
Know More