5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
Diana George
+91
12/09/2024
“The help we got from UPES and the Moot Court Association at the University was of immense help. From allotting us a mentor for the competition to organising practice rounds in front of our learned faculty members, UPES acted as a support system at every step,” Utsav remarks.
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
The trio cannot wait to use their prize money of INR 1 lakh and begin their paid internship opportunities at AZB & Partners, a leading corporate law firm with offices across India.
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Published 28/04/2023
The winners have secured paid internships with Khaitan & Co and are grateful for all the support and encouragement they have received from the university and the faculty.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
The competition was held at Hidayatullah National Law University, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, and the topic under discussion was Competition Law and Issues Pertaining to Green Channel Route of Combinations, Anti-Competitive Agreements and Abuse of Dominance.
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
school of law
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Describing the nerve-wracking experience of representing their alma mater in front of esteemed judges of top courts across India, Anshika Agrawal, BA LL.B., 2nd year, says, “I realised that one does not need to be a National Law University student to get ahead in the field of law. All that matters is one’s hard work, style of presentation, arguing and knowledge.”
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
Five students from UPES School of Law went all guns blazing this year and won two prestigious national and international competitions – the CCI-HNLU 13th Justice Hidayatullah National Moot Court Competition 2023 and the International Mediation Competition hosted by MediateGuru, in association with Khaitan & Co, respectively.
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
Utsav Vats, Yashaswani’s batchmate and third-year student of BA LL.B. (Hons.), believes that the support the team received from UPES, as they prepared for the competition, was vital.
While they celebrated their win in Raipur, two of their peers – Raj Pipara and Vaishnavi Panyam, third-year students of B.Com. LL.B. – declared their victory over their international opponents, a team from the Swansea University, Wales, UK, in the Virtual International Mediation Competition, hosted by MediateGuru, in association with Khaitan & Co.
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
From left to right: UPES School of Law students Yashaswani Parashar, Anshika Agrawal and Utsav Vats
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Her senior and teammate Yashaswani, agrees. “Participating in and winning the Hidayatullah Moot Court Competition changed my perspective that one needed to be in a National Law University to crack moots or gain an edge over others,” she says, adding, “UPES provides ample exposure on par with National Law Universities, which makes it one of the best law colleges of India.”
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
Law students script blazing wins for UPES
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Anshika Agrawal, Yashaswani Parashar and Utsav Vats did UPES proud and brought home the coveted Justice Hidayatullah National Moot Court trophy after beating contestants from other leading law colleges of India.
upes school of law
Besides the cash prize and trophy, the winners have secured paid internship opportunities with leading law firms
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022