Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
Technology
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Virtual workplace
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Globalisation and its implications
A multidisciplinary organisational function, Human Resource Management (HRM) revolves around managing relations at the workplace. Its context draws principles and theories from various fields such as management, psychology, and sociology. HRM is concerned with personnel policies and managerial practices that influence the employees. Decisions affecting the workforce of the organisation, staffing, maintaining an effective workforce, work processes, job analysis, training and development, recruiting, reimbursement, team building, performance management, appraisal, health and safety issues of the workforce, are some of the major responsibilities performed by the human resource management.
Changing skill requirements
The global economy demands human resource professionals to work according to changing needs. Organisations should be more adaptable, resilient, quick to change directions, and employee-oriented. Within this dynamic environment, HR professionals must learn how to manage effectively through strategic planning, organising, leading, and be well-informed of the emerging trends in training and employee development.
Please enter email address
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Technology has a huge impact on HRM. It has changed the way HR departments contact employees, store files, and analyse employee performance. The increased use of automation tools and cloud solutions is freeing up human resources from mundane tasks. The use of technology in easing time-consuming tasks such as tracking employee attendance and work performance, allowing HRM to focus on employee involvement, productivity, and meeting other pivotal goals.
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Mansha Dhingra
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
Businesses today do not have national boundaries. The HR departments should ensure that there is a mix of employees in terms of knowledge, skills, and cultural adaptability. This will help employees handle global assignments as well. Organisations should prepare their workforce to meet global challenges.
Recruiting and developing skilled labour is important for competitiveness, productivity, quality, and growth. Skill deficiencies can result in significant losses for the organisation. Some skills might be obsolete while some skills can be easily developed to meet future demand. HRM department should implement suitable training programs to bridge the skill gaps and deficiencies.
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
In the current scenario, employing a diversified workforce is necessary for every organisation. Workforce diversity means similarities and differences among employees in terms of age, cultural background, physical abilities and disabilities, race, religion, and gender. HRM must educate people to effectively manage and respect the diversity of views each offers.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Employee expectations
Trending Post
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Tags
Re-engineering work processes for better productivity
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
Employee involvement
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
UPES School of Business
06/08/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Human Resource Management
HRM has an important role to play in employee involvement. Some employee involvement activities include participative management, teamwork, goal setting, employee training, and empowering of employees.
Nowadays, employees are well-versed, more demanding, and are ready to raise their voice in case their expectations are not met. An efficient organisation is therefore required to foresee and manage revenue through human resource planning, training schemes followed by appropriate compensation packages.
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
One of the most obvious trends predicted for 2021 was the increasing acceptance of working from home that is more flexible and worker-centric. For some, that change is permanent. Major companies such as Facebook, Shopify, and Slack have embraced the new normal of working from home. Once the pandemic is over, the work environment will not simply return to the way it was. According to Gallup data, 65% of workers would prefer to continue working from home post-COVID.
In today’s dynamic environment, work processes in an organisation must be evaluated and altered. Employees should rethink what work should be done, how it is to be done, and how to best implement these decisions. Re-engineering changes how organisations work and directly affects employees. Therefore, HRM must have mechanisms for employees to give them the appropriate direction of what to do and assist them in dealing with any conflict that may seep into the organisation.
Email Address
The world is constantly being shaken by the disruptive forces that affect both social and professional life. Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resources. This begs the question: What is in store for the Human Resource (HR) industry? The article is an insight into the recent trends that will transform future work.
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
MBA in HR
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Workforce diversity
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Published 17/02/2021
Last Name