Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
7 April
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Globalisation refers to the universal movement of money, people, information and ideas. The term or its implications are not new anymore but what is new is the globalisation of healthcare in the COVID-19 era. The times of pandemic have seen rave advancements in the areas of delivery of healthcare, adoption of modern technology in diagnostics and medicine, sprouting out of new policies and grants to fund healthcare  and churning out the best of trained personnel in this sector. Besides the effect of globalisation on healthcare, it is essential to illustrate and emphasise the fundamentals of health and hygiene, which we are already aware of and put things into perspective.
upes school of health sciences
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Around this time in March last year, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared COVID-19 a pandemic and the whole world went into a frenzy. There were travel bans and prohibitions, enhanced hand hygiene, the introduction of the mandatory use of masks and gloves when in public and the eventual lockdown to curb the immediate spread. However, the most important outcome of the announcement of the COVID-19 pandemic was that it initiated efforts towards one common scientific theme – the generation of the COVID-19 vaccine.
India has the best of medical and para-medical education, research-focussed schools and the best of brains. The vaccine initiatives began in the west, however, India became the biggest vaccine manufacturer and also the largest market. The world entrusted  India for research, manufacturing and distribution of vaccines. Some vaccines had tough storage requirements like storage at -70oC and were clearly not for the masses. These continued to only flood the west and the wealthy nations. The ones with 0-8oC storage requirements are being  manufactured and distributed in India. The mere realisation of the fact that vaccines were made for all, no single person benefitted alone and if some vaccines did not cater to the masses, newer ones became the focus of developing countries reiterate the notion that health is for all. The lead research countries like the US, UK and Germany led vaccine R&D efforts and India caught up sooner than imagined.
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Until the pandemic hit, India was a country of choice for medical tourism i.e. people travelled to get affordable healthcare. The whole situation turned due to the pandemic; tourism, as well as medical tourism, hit rock bottom.  Jobs of billions were at stake.  Everything seemed dark and gloomy for India until a diversification and transformation of its pharmaceutical industry turned the nation into the biggest drug and vaccine producer.
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
*
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
world health day
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences, Dehradun, India is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines like microbiology. As an academic institution that believes in outcome-based education and is run by global faculties coming from the world over, globalisation of health care and medicine is the central theme and key driver of UPES’ curriculum development, training, internship and research. The inter-disciplinary school offers courses with industrial internships, inter-disciplinary research projects and theory and practical exposure in courses like epidemiology and disease management, pharmacovigilance, diet and disease, probiotics and prebiotics.
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
That is because health is for all.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
60% of the world’s vaccines come from India and at a comparatively cheaper cost. India is leading by example during the COVID–19 pandemic by lending vaccines to other countries, at a cost as low as INR 250. The vaccines made in India are being shipped globally.
13/08/2024
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
The writer is Dr. Smriti Arora, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Health Sciences
-- None --
--None--
healthcare sector
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Let us hope that the global community remains one and together in all circumstances and not merely to combat pandemics because the quest for good living is fundamental to all. SoHS, UPES supports a more scientific world while continuing to fight the pandemic using vaccines, soaps, masks and sanitisers.
Dr. Smriti Arora
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The globalisation of healthcare became an emergent need when a microbe saw no boundaries while infecting and caused havoc; rapid action had to be taken to curb its spread. Previous epidemics that have hit mankind – like HIV, ZIKA, Ebola, SARS and MERS – all have had origins in one country. But due to the increased mobility of people around the world in the last decade, the diseases hit other regions of the world quite rapidly. The economic slowdown brought about by these epidemics, especially the COVID-19 pandemic, has been overwhelming both for developing and underdeveloped countries, which is why the world came together to fight this.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Though, several questions arise from the handling of the pandemic: What was the need to act coordinately? Why didn’t the governance of the COVID-19 pandemic look like how governors run states/countries and why is the world still together in this?
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Published 07/04/2021
Last Name