An airplane takes off and suffers a crack in one of its parts mid-air. This untreated crack can become deeper with time and cause safety concerns, putting hundreds of lives at risk. The airplane, therefore, must make an emergency landing.
Food start-up incubated at UPES seeks to empower local communities
Dr. Sravendra Rana, Senior Associate Professor at UPES School of Advanced Engineering, is developing materials that can repair autonomously and help in preventing airplane accidents. This breakthrough in airplane safety can be a game-changer in the aeronautical industry
That experience changed his life, and he realised that he wanted to become a professor and continue his research to solve the problems in his field. After his PhD in Korea, he moved to Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore, where he worked for two years. His hunger to learn more about advanced materials took him to Martin Luther University in Germany, where he worked on European Union projects. After that, he came to UPES, where he has mentored several students in their research journey.
Trending Post
Dr. Rana explains, “The catalyst that makes the self-healing of materials possible is costly and toxic. People working in the aerospace industry have suffered from grave health issues; some of them who started on this journey died of cancer. My objective, therefore, is to use biomolecules, which are derived from naturally-occurring substances such as castor oil. These materials can stop the crack in an airplane from getting deeper and simultaneously heal the crack.”
Last Name
A diet trend that promotes health and longevity
What if, in that very moment of damage, the crack not only stops from getting deeper, it also heals itself just like the tissues of living organisms? A Senior Associate Professor at the UPES School of Advanced Engineering, Dr. Sravendra Rana, is turning this concept into reality.
+91
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Secured an All India Rank – 2 in in the order of merit in Computer Science Engineering for Technical Graduate Course -132 entry of Indian Army
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Mobile Number
Dr. Rana hails from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, where he completed his Master’s. For his PhD, he moved to Seoul, South Korea, where he worked on shape memory polymers – polymeric smart materials with the capacity to recover their original shape after being temporarily deformed.
Tags
Have a design-related question? This prof has all the answers
Is intermittent fasting a step towards a healthier lifestyle? It is generally safe and does not result in energy level disturbances or increased disordered eating behaviours.
UPES alumnus Aryan Singh founded ‘FitBread’ with Akshit Saxena and Aditya Kashyap.
-- None --
Submit
Research and Innovation
Please select Course
--None--
of UPES.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Subscribe
Published 28/02/2023
Course Type
Image credit: Unsplash
Select Course
Dr. Divya Rawat
The innovation enhances aircraft availability since it is self-healing and is always ready, increasing the safety, productivity, and life of airplanes. “Even the recycling of such materials is easier, as the material that earlier had a life of 10-15 years lasts longer because of the healing property, hence deferring the waste,” he says.
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
the
Self-repairing composite materials can reduce the repair costs of airplanes and provide a boost for the aeronautical sector. They will require minimal maintenance and will have the ability to repair their own micro-cracks and breaks, thus providing an alternative to expensive manual testing and repair. This material can also heal aircraft hit by space debris at high speeds.
School of Advanced Engineering
UPES alumnus and CWG silver-medallist Navneet Singh
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
For over 20 years, researchers have been attempting to generate materials that are able to repair autonomically or through external stimuli such as heat, light, or pressure. However, the stability, processing, and cost of catalysts that go into making those materials remain a challenge.
Sports scholarships motivate athletes: CWG silver medallist and UPES alumnus Navneet Singh
What should students entering the field of design must know? How has the industry changed over the years?
*
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
Big sporting feats at UPES in 2022
School of Engineering
Ekta Kashyap
Please enter last name
In India, Dr. Rana says, he is among the first ones to use Vitrimer, a class of polymer material capable of self-healing and shape reprocessing at low temperatures. “Given the huge amount of unrecyclable waste from thermoset polymer-based products, the potential of the Vitrimer concept is highly attractive, which meets the recently increasing demand to create polymers with efficient recyclability, together with the need to reduce CO2-emission and petroleum resources consumption. Vitrimer is the future,” he emphasises.
The research is funded by the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. In 2017, Dr. Rana had received a grant of INR 55 lakh to continue his work in self-healing materials. In addition, SERB had allocated a grant of INR 24 lakh in 2021 to continue his work on Vitrimers.
test_user
What if cracks could self-repair and prevent aircraft accidents? A researcher is making this possible
UPES provided opportunities for holistic development; proud to join the Indian Army
UPES alumnus and Commonwealth Games medallist Navneet Singh (left) and shooting champion and student Deeya Chopra (right).