+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
School of Liberal Studies
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
What are your thoughts on UPES School of Liberal Studies and its transdisciplinary approach to learning?
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Digital Humanities have kept up with cutting-edge technologies like ML/AI and in some cases have joined forces with fields like Data Science. DH allow us to look at the past through wider lenses and to formulate questions which may never have been asked, or found to be askable, by individual researchers.  Moreover, important critiques of the claims of ML/AI proponents to enrich human life have emerged from DH. In particular, critics have asked how ML/AI came to embody forms of bias and discrimination which run counter to the general aims of society.
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
David Joseph Wrisley is Professor of Digital Humanities at New York University Abu Dhabi. His research interests include comparative approaches to medieval literature in European languages and Arabic, digital spatial approaches to corpora, neural methods for handwritten text recognition across writing systems, and open knowledge community building in the Middle East where he has lived and researched since 2002. One of the speakers at Intersections-International Conference on Digital Humanities (IICDH), to be held in UPES Dehradun on December 15-16, he shares his insights on the importance of DH research in helping learners develop a critical approach to the changing technological landscape.
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Digital Humanities, once the subject of research and teaching in a limited number of countries, have experienced significant global development in recent years. Since Digital Humanities often have a dual focus – both employing technology to study elements of the human record and bringing critical perspectives to the general developments of digital culture – this means necessarily that local traditions of the study of the Humanities, as well as uses of media and the digital have everything to do with how DH take shape. DH are fundamental in the cultural sector and creative industries for the dissemination of research and programming as well as for shaping public memory in the present age.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Experience in Digital Humanities prepares learners for an uncertain future: Prof David J Wrisley
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
How can Digital Humanities prepare students for the workplace of tomorrow?
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Is Digital Humanities widening its breadth and scope to include a study and analysis of new-age technologies like Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Data Science?
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
Published 06/12/2022
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
How has digitization impacted Humanities research?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
Conversations about the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the future of work often express uncertainties about what the workplace of tomorrow will look like and what we will do there. Experience in Digital Humanities and attendant technologies is an excellent preparation for that uncertain future. DH research and inquiry encourage students to be flexible and to work in teams toward common goals, all the while developing a critical approach to the changing technological landscape in our societies.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Digitization of archival documents has impacted Humanities research in profound ways. Documents of the human record have become available to so many more people and in so many more places than ever before. It can be said that digitization closes an important access gap. It is important to underscore, however, that not everything in the world has been digitized and archives which are already digitized end up garnering a disproportionate amount of attention among researchers. Another process, the digitalization of humanities research, is also worth mentioning. What is meant by that is that the tools of humanities research (catalogues, methods of access, and analysis) have also undergone significant digital transformation. Digitization and digitalization go hand in hand, although they do not always move forward at the same speed.
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
My own educational and professional experiences have been at liberal arts institutions favouring a broad-based education. I am a strong proponent of forward-looking, research-led teaching – a pedagogical approach I champion at my own institution in Abu Dhabi.  I recognize that this kind of education requires long-term, unflagging institutional support as well as mechanisms that reward risk-taking.  I look forward to learning more from your approach to transdisciplinary learning and how student and faculty experiences of it intersect.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
What is the scope of Digital Humanities in the present day and age? What are its practical applications? How can it help Humanities students and researchers?
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Image credit: Pixabay
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024