+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Metaverse is ideal for the media sector as it offers a completely immersive platform for generating and managing digital content. The open-source system is compatible with numerous NFTs, allowing it to remain relevant in the media and entertainment industry. In the media and entertainment business, the role of Metaverse and NFTs in facilitating virtual asset ownership is becoming increasingly important.
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Metaverse is ushering in a new internet era, bringing new opportunities as well as obstacles for investors, marketers, and media professionals. But what exactly is Metaverse? Simply defined, it is the internet as we know it, but entirely immersive and experiential, incorporating virtual and augmented reality. This implies that internet users will be able to consume content in two as well as three dimensions via a VR (virtual reality) headset.
Image credit: Unsplash
Metaverse
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
, students are taught about new-age media and rapidly-evolving technology. Through state-of-the-art studios, faculty comprising renowned media experts, an industry-aligned curriculum, interactions with prominent journalists and notable media experts, the school equips students to put theory into practice. The UPES School of Modern Media is India’s only digital-first media school.
Please enter email address
Metaverse platforms are being increasingly used to enhance social interactions, provide more immersive experiences, and drive media content consumption and visibility. Media companies are quickly adopting Metaverse to establish a presence, gather audience and engagement, and develop well-structured monetisation strategies. As a result, the industry is hiring talent who can help them realise their metaverse ambitions
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
How UPES School of Modern Media is equipping students for the future
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Users may, for example, wander around a virtual shopping mall from the comfort of their own homes and buy clothing from e-retailers that have already established a presence in the Metaverse. They might even attend virtual events like concerts and fashion exhibitions. Users may also create a house and rent it or open a shop to purchase and sell e-commerce items. All transactions in the virtual world use both fungible and non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and all transactions are recorded on the blockchain.
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
There is also more potential when there is more traffic. Exploding user activity along with massive capital injections into the Metaverse is spawning new sectors and professions ranging from digital real estate agents to digital brokers. It also opens new avenues for media professionals.
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
How does Metaverse influence the media sector?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Published 06/06/2022
How evolving technologies will impact the media sector
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Companies are beginning to explore new and innovative ways to promote to their consumers in the Metaverse, from digital billboards positioned in popular sections of virtual cities to branded installations on virtual streets.
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
At the
UPES Editorial Team
The development of Metaverse heralds a paradigm change in the media and entertainment industry. Through the platform, a user may connect with other users by creating an avatar and using a basic username. Additionally, the infrastructure supports messaging, alerts, rating systems, and reputation management. Other elements of the platform can assist in speeding transactions by allowing content producers to retain rights to their work and receive payment from each sale or exchange of the NFTs.
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Metaverse platforms are being increasingly used to enhance social interactions, provide more immersive experiences, and drive media content consumption and visibility. Media companies are quickly adopting Metaverse to establish a presence, gather audience and engagement, and develop well-structured monetisation strategies. As a result, the industry is hiring talent who can help them realise their Metaverse ambitions.
UPES School of Modern Media
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
As technologies continue to evolve, UPES, too, continues to provide courses and infrastructure that keeps its students ahead of the game.
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
career
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024