Diana George
Physical and Emotional Well-Being
Prioritising training and upskilling foster a culture of continuous learning and development within organisations. This encourages employees to acquire new skills and tackle new challenges, ultimately boosting overall engagement. Continuous learning also enables leaders to attract and retain top talent by investing in talent development, which further strengthens the organisation.
Trending Post
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
Businesses must develop leadership talent within their organisations who can translate the company’s vision into action from a strategic point of view. To be impactful in leading their companies in the new world of business, leaders require a specific blend of skills and attributes. Leaders must embrace constant learning while keeping an eye on the future. By upskilling themselves, leaders can anticipate changes and adapt quickly, thereby staying ahead of the competition. This is crucial as training and upskilling enable leaders and employees to quickly pivot to market shifts, thereby ensuring the long-term success of any organisation.
+91
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
Upskilling involves improving the skills and abilities of existing employees to advance in their current roles and careers within the organisation. It also helps to minimize skill gaps, if any, in the workplace. Reskilling, on the other hand, focuses on training staff for different jobs. Both objectives are generally achieved through training and other learning and development initiatives.
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
The writer is Prof. Rahul Nainwal, Director, School of Business, UPES
Levelling Up
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Published 10/11/2023
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
https://hbr.org/2021/11/organizations-need-a-dynamic-approach-to-teaching-people-new-skills
Email Address
Mobile Number
As technology continues to evolve, organisations must stay prepared for the next phase of their industry. Leaders who invest in upskilling themselves and their teams can prepare for the future by identifying emerging trends, adopting new technologies, and building new capabilities. This helps future-proof the business and ensures that it remains relevant and competitive in the years to come. Upskilling helps leaders and their organisations to build resilience. By developing new skills, capabilities, and mindsets, leaders can navigate challenges and setbacks with confidence, knowing that they have the tools and expertise to overcome any obstacle.
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks. Overnight,  businesses had to transition to remote work, necessitating the adoption of real-time digital systems to ensure continued productivity. For leaders, this new business landscape brought forth fresh challenges.  The rapidly changing market dynamics coupled with technological advancements compelled businesses to focus on upskilling their employees and management to navigate a complex landscape to stay ahead of the competition.
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
Innovation is key to staying ahead of the competition, and leaders who upskill can swiftly drive innovation within their organisations. By staying up to date with the latest trends and technologies, leaders can able to identify new opportunities and accordingly develop innovative solutions that meet the changing needs of the customers. This helps businesses stay relevant and competitive, even in crowded markets.
Difference between Upskilling & Reskilling
Technology Demands Constant Training & Upskilling
-- None --
Submit
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09585192.2021.1891114
--None--
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
Subscribe
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
Course Type
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Select Course
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
https://www.peoplematters.in/article/leadership/upskilling-leadership-for-a-new-world-of-business-31588
the
Innovation is the key to maintaining a competitive edge, and leaders who upskill can drive innovation within their organizations. By staying current with the latest trends and technologies, leaders can identify new opportunities and develop innovative solutions to meet evolving customer needs. This positions businesses to remain relevant and competitive, even in crowded markets.
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Please Select Course Type
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
*
privacy policy
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
The post-COVID era has highlighted the importance of ensuring the mental health and well-being of employees,  necessitating support for the development of emotional intelligence, self-care, resilience, and personal growth.  Not only HR but also managers are now required to be more empathetic and proficient in handling employees’ professional and personal challenges,  providing necessary support to ensure the overall well-being. This can only happen when leaders and managers are trained to handle such unforeseen circumstances and situations effectively.
References
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2022/05/23/leveling-up-the-benefits-of-upskilling-for-employees-and-organizations/?sh=6844e18345a5
Last Name