$2 billion (2024 estimate).
Diana George
Perseverance and breaking barriers are essential for success.
Adaptability is crucial in changing markets.
Pursue Business Administration
Aggressive expansion and diversification; Disruptive pricing strategies in the telecom industry.
The journeys of these renowned Indian entrepreneurs offer a compelling blend of innovation, resilience, and visionary leadership. Each story highlights distinct strategies, from harnessing technology and adopting customer-centric approaches to breaking societal barriers and fostering inclusive growth. They have revolutionized industries, from telecom and IT to cosmetics and e-commerce, setting benchmarks for aspiring entrepreneurs. The life lessons they impart underscore the importance of perseverance, adaptability, and an unwavering commitment to one's vision. These leaders exemplify that success is not just about financial gains but about making an impact that extends beyond business, contributing positively to society and inspiring the next generation to dream bigger and bolder.
+91
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
MobiKwik
Course Type
Innovation
$2.4 billion (2024 estimate).
Upasana Taku
Please enter email address
Turned Zomato from a menu-aggregator into a global food delivery platform.
B.Com. (Hons.)
Low cost, Tech-first approach.
Final Words
*
MBA
Narayana Murthy
When it comes to futureproofing your career, choosing industry-relevant programs to hone your skills, enhance your expertise, and align your career trajectory with industry demands is imperative. By exploring these top programs, you’ll better understand how each field can shape your career and set you up for success in the entrepreneurial sphere.
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any. However, their success story is just tip of the iceberg! Their grit, perseverance, strength, determination composes the greater part of the story. We hope to instil in you a burning desire for success via this blog. Read on to discover the difficult journey of twelve Entrepreneurs, what they’ve achieved, and more.
Name
Ethical leadership and strategic acquisitions; Launched Tata Nano, an affordable car, demonstrating frugal engineering.
business degree
$1.2 billion (2024 estimate)
Conclusion
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw
Vineeta Singh
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
Problem Solving
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Financial inclusion.
Co-founded Zerodha in 2010, disrupting traditional brokerage models with zero-fee trading.
Trending Post
Tata Group
ZOMATO
India has seen many entrepreneurs in recent years who have carved a niche for themselves. They have shown immense daring, challenged the status quo and made significant contributions to the economy, society and culture.
Integrated- BBA-MBA
Falguni Nayar
Nykaa
Please enter first name
$92 billion (2024 estimate)
Nikhil Kamath
Mobile Number
Ritesh Agarwal
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
Infosys
Life Lesson
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Here’s a list of Famous Indian Entrepreneurs who are worth emulating:
By
Expanded the Mahindra Group into diverse sectors, including automotive, IT, and financial services.
BBA
$650 million (2024 estimate).
the
PhD
Founded Biocon in 1978, overcoming gender biases to build it into a leading biopharmaceutical company.
Please Select Course Type
If you aspire to excel in business and gain expertise in entrepreneurship, consider pursuing the right
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
Vision & Strategy
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
$500 million (2024 estimate).
Founded SUGAR Cosmetics in 2015, creating a high-quality, affordable makeup brand.
These entrepreneurs showcase that resilience, market understanding, customer-centric approaches, and continuous innovation are pivotal for building successful businesses.
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
$3.8 billion (2024 estimate).
Mukesh Ambani
Table of Contents:
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
Please enter mobile number
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
Entrepreneurship is the process of creating, developing, and managing a business venture to make a profit while taking on financial risks. It involves identifying a market opportunity, innovating products or services, and building a sustainable business model. Entrepreneurs are individuals who take the initiative to turn ideas into successful enterprises, often characterized by traits like creativity, resilience, risk-taking, and leadership.
Integrity and long-term vision are key to sustainable success
Timing is everything, and small starts can lead to big outcomes.
Took over Reliance Industries after his father, Dhirubhai Ambani, and expanded it into a global conglomerate, notably revolutionizing the telecom industry with Jio.
Founded Paytm, initially as a mobile recharge platform, evolving it into one of India's largest digital payment services.
Business Journey
-- None --
--None--
Biocon
Value Creation
Co-founded MobiKwik, a digital wallet and payment gateway, in 2009.
! It can help you master business analytical tools, skills, and strategies with a constant industry-relevant curriculum, practical exposure, live projects, and expert mentorship. Here’s a list of courses you can pursue:
Estimated in the millions.
Anand Mahindra
Asset-light model and franchise agreements.
Identify market gaps and scale rapidly.
Democratizing financial access can transform industries.
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
Founded Nykaa in 2012, positioning it as India's leading beauty and wellness e-commerce company.
Net Worth
Simplicity and hard work are foundations of entrepreneurial success.
What is Entrepreneurship?
Take risks to achieve your vision.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
Focused on niche markets and consumer engagement; Bridged offline and online retail through experiential stores.
$3.7 billion (2024 estimate).
Always look for opportunities to innovate and disrupt existing markets.
Zerodha
Recognize opportunities for innovation in everyday life.
Successful Entrepreneur Story in India
Published 13/12/2023
Co-founded Infosys in 1981, growing it into a global leader in IT services.
Emphasis on customer satisfaction and employee-centric policies.
$2.7 billion (2024 estimate).
Transformed the Tata Group into a global brand, acquiring companies like Jaguar Land Rover and Corus Steel.
Deepinder Goyal
First-mover advantage and partnerships; Led the cashless movement in India through Paytm’s financial ecosystem.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
OYO Rooms
Email Address
Focused on affordable healthcare and biopharmaceuticals.
SUGAR Cosmetics
Estimated to be in the millions.
Reliance Industries
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Mahindra Group
Please select Course
Paytm
UPES Admission Enquiry
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
“Successful people are not gifted; they just work hard, then succeed on purpose.”- G.K. Nielson
Think global, but act local.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Direct-to-consumer approach and strategic branding.
Agile pivoting and partnerships.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Integrated B.Com. (Hons.)-MBA
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
privacy policy
Diversification and Global partnerships.
Business Name
Ratan Tata
Founded OYO Rooms at age 19, revolutionizing budget hotel stays in India and globally.
Entrepreneurial Strategy
Last Name
It's never too late to start a new entrepreneurial journey.
Risk Taking