Session 1: January 24 to January 30, 2025
:
Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics/Biology, English Proficiency, Logical Reasoning
Take mock tests to improve speed and accuracy.
The NMIMS Programs After Twelfth (NPAT) exam is one of India’s most prestigious entrance tests, providing students with an opportunity to secure admission to Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS).
many engineering entrance exams happening too! So, let us look at some of the most coveted engineering exams in India:
, at least till April! Stay ahead in your game and march ahead with full confidence and stress-free mindset. Preparing for the above list of engineering entrance exams in India after 12
Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main
+91
Don’t feel daunted looking at the long list of exams above! No matter how high the mountain looks, it’s always scalable! With the right strategy, you can open doors to your success:
First Name
Are you planning to study in any prestigious law schools of US, Canada and other major countries? Gear yourself up for the LSAT India 2025!
List of Engineering Entrance Exams in India after 12
5. Stay Consistent:
BITS Admission Test (BITSAT)
Preparation Tips
Exam Pattern
Focus on speed and accuracy, as the paper has no negative marking.
Best CLAT Books & Study Resources
390
Upcoming year will be all about exams
VITEEE is an online entrance exam conducted by VIT for admission to its undergraduate engineering programs across its campuses in Vellore, Chennai, Bhopal, and Amaravati.
Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT)
Course Type
May 2, 2025
Syllabus Highlights
Please enter email address
nd stay updated with the latest exam schedules. Good luck with your journey to securing admission to your dream engineering college!
Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics
Practice numerical problems regularly.
The right strategy can automatically reduce your stress and chances of failure significantly.
*
They are all gateways to some of the best engineering colleges in India. Make sure to not miss any deadlines of application for the above engineering exams.
Similar to NCERT Class 11 and 12 syllabus.
Strengthen conceptual understanding.
2. Know the Exam Pattern and Syllabus:
Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced
March 31, 2025
How to Prepare for AEEE?
Conclusion
Physics:
April 10, 2025
Focus on NCERT syllabus.
3. Take Mock Tests:
Simulate real exam conditions and analyse your performance.
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Mechanical engineering, one of the oldest and most versatile engineering disciplines, offers a broad spectrum of subjects and specializations.
CUET Exam Preparation
Session 1: December 15, 2024
Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Modern Physics
Trending Post
Exam Date
List of Top Engineering Entrance Exam in India
How Many Attempts for JEE Mains 2025? A Complete Guide
SRM Institute of Science and Technology
Please enter first name
Expert Tips to Crack Exams
Mobile Number
Conducting Body
4. Focus on NCERT Books:
Preparing for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) is a crucial step for aspiring lawyers aiming to secure admission to premier law schools in India.
May 18, 2025
LSAT for Law Students- Dates, Syllabus, Exam Pattern, Fees, Mock Tests
The Common University Entrance Test (CUET) is more than just an entrance exam; it's a gateway to some of the most prestigious universities in India, including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, and several others.
1. Plan Your Preparation:
Submit
requires dedication, strategy, and perseverance. Use this guide to streamline your preparation a
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
How to Prepare for NPAT?
the list of engineering entrance exams in India after 12
Sections:
Prioritize speed and accuracy.
National Testing Agency (NTA)
By
Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT)
the
Meet Rohan. Like many high school students, he dreamt of building a successful career in business. He had always been fascinated by the world of finance, entrepreneurship, and how companies make strategic decisions.
KIITEE (Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology Entrance Exam)
UPES Management Entrance Test (UPESMET) 2021
SRM Joint Engineering Entrance Exam (SRMJEEE)
Please Select Course Type
Total Marks:
Are you a fan of the black robes, court settings, and legal verbiage?
A subscriber email already exists.
Session 2: March 10, 2025
NCERT-based syllabus for Class 11 and 12.
can be a tedious task. Heartbeat of the entire student community is pumped up when the exam season arrives. For your ease, this blog lists the top engineering entrance exams in India for 2025, their exam dates, syllabus, application process, and expert tips to crack them.
April 5, 2025
Very soon we’ll have the JEE Exam knocking on our doors! Some will break those doors to enter colleges of their dreams while some will continue to stand still.
JEE Exam happens to be India’s one of the Toughest and one of the most aspired exams to crack! It opens doors to India’s finest engineering colleges and helps student receive world class pedagogy and exposure to improve and build their character.
Practice solving multi-step problems.
Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics/Biology, English, Aptitude
VITEEE: How to Prepare for the VITEEE Exam?
Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani
Do you aspire to become a lawyer? Do you wish with all your heart, to pursue law? Let us acquaint you with another All-India Exam which can help you realise you this dream of yours.
Engineering remains one of the most sought-after career paths in India, with various entrance exams serving as the gateway to premier engineering institutions. Keeping in mind
Solve sample papers provided by VIT.
Chemical Bonding, Organic Chemistry, Redox Reactions
Table of Contents:
480
Thoroughly understand the pattern and important topics.
2.5 hours
Please enter mobile number
If you dream of getting into an engineering program at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University, the gateway to your aspirations lies through AEEE (Amrita Engineering Entrance Exam).
JEE Mains vs JEE Advanced - Differences, Pattern, Syllabus 2025
Standard topics from Class 11 and 12.
-- None --
--None--
April 15 to April 21, 2025
Chemistry:
List of Subjects, Specializations and Entrance Exam in Mechanical Engineering
1.5 million Engineering Graduates enter the Indian market every year. Naturally, there are
Published 20/12/2024
Duration:
UPES Editorial Team
Learn to allocate time effectively across sections during preparation and the exam.
List of Engineering Entrance Exams in India after 12th
300
Expert Tips to Crack Engineering Entrance Exams
Variable
Advanced-level concepts of Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics.
Please enter last name
April 25 to April 30, 2025
UPESMET is a centralized university entrance examination for all aspirants to take admission in any of the management courses.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
May 22 to May 30, 2025
April 15, 2025
How to Crack JEE Exam: Important Tips & Tricks You Should Know
Create a realistic study schedule and stick to it.
SLAT Exam: How to Prepare, Exam Date, Registration, Syllabus, Mock Test 2025
125
Solve previous years' question papers.
NCERT-based topics from Class 11 and 12.
Engineering Exam Name
Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics/Biology, English
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
CLAT- How to Prepare for the Law Exam?
LL.B. to Judiciary: A Guide to Preparing for Judicial Services Exams
th
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Computer-Based Test (CBT)
Algebra, Calculus, Coordinate Geometry
Email Address
IITs (in 2025, IIT Kanpur)
Prioritize accuracy, as there is no negative marking.
Regularly practice mock tests.
Most entrance exams have questions based on NCERT Class 11 and 12 syllabus.
VIT Engineering Entrance Exam (VITEEE)
How to Prepare for BBA Entrance Exams: A Journey to Success
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains is one of the most competitive exams in India, opening doors to prestigious engineering colleges like the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and eligibility for the JEE Advanced for admissions into the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).
Mode:
Related Articles
Mathematics:
Session 2: April 6 to April 12, 2025
April 16 to April 25, 2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
6 hours (Paper 1: 3 hours, Paper 2: 3 hours)
6. Time Management:
privacy policy
Enroll in mock test series designed for JEE Advanced.
3 hours
Regular practice and revision are key to success.
Focus on time management, as the test includes 150 questions.
Application Deadline
Last Name
Focus on NCERT books for Chemistry.