UPES is one of the few universities in India that offer social internships in first year to all students, irrespective of their field of study. While UPES has conducted social internships in the past, what makes Srijan unique is that it is a mandatory six-week-long social internship. It firmly puts the ‘social’ at the centre of learning for university students. It drives home the point that the core purpose of education is to better the lives of others and the community as a whole. And what better time to introduce students to ‘social purpose’ than when they are in their first year of university education.
Action and Reflection
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
The writer is Prof. Rahul Nainwal, Director, School of Business, UPES
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
For many students, this is the first time they will be working in a formal environment. That itself is full of learning. They will get to learn what organisations are, how they work, how they are structured, what they are trying to achieve and how. Meeting a diverse range of people, be it colleagues or people for whom the organisation is working, will bring in lots of learning.
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
The Srijan model of social internships
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Organising social internships is quite a bit of work and it is unlikely students will do this on their own later in their lives. That makes the internships organised by UPES a great opportunity for students.
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Why is social work important for students?
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Trending Post
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
Srijan social internships will close the gap between knowing something and having a first-hand experience. When students see and experience things for themselves, it stays with them. They become curious as to why things are the way they are. They question them. They build empathy and that is the first step on the road to making a difference and building leadership skills in the process.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
social internships
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
By
the
09/01/2025
Internships, in general, are great for learning. However, social internships are special because they bring students in touch with the grassroot realities and afford them a chance to look at social issues up close and personal. They get to understand the ways in which privilege, oppression, marginalisation, and powerlessness contribute to systematic inequalities. They learn why tap water is a luxury afforded by few; why ‘roti, kapda and makaan’ is a constant struggle for the disadvantaged sections of society.
Social internships are special because they bring students in touch with the grassroot realities
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
One of the roles of education, and thereby of educational institutions such as UPES, is to nurture an individual who is capable of leading a productive and meaningful life. The other is to instil the right kind of values. Social internships check both boxes – they introduce students to the society and its challenges and create value systems of service, giving, empathy and respect for those who are less fortunate.
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
Reflection will happen through experiences such as writing blogs and e-portfolios that students will prepare to share what they are going through, how the experience is changing them and what are they thinking, to name a few.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
benefits of internships
When students come back from their internships, a campus-wide social fair will be organised so that they can share their learning and experience with everyone.
Students will be prepared before they go for social internships. There is a pre-internship course designed to make students aware of the social issues. Masterclasses with eminent professionals in the social sector will be organised to bring practical experiences to the fore. The Career Services team at UPES will be running Spring Board Sessions on social internships to clarify students’ doubts.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Action is the ‘social internship’. During the internship, students will be assigned a project and a mentor within a non-profit organisation. UPES team will also be guiding students with interesting readings and assignments that will add to the internship experience.
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
internships importance
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
Going to social internships is one part of the learning. The other two important pieces are what happens before and after. All the models of social internships at UPES have been designed to make sure that learning is happening at all times through action and reflection.
--None--
Students are young and full of energy. They are more open to new things and ideas. They are like unmolded clay. This is also the time when the students begin to think about what to do in life and at this stage an exposure to social work can be transformative. They can acquaint themselves with the social sector, the problems, challenges and opportunities and form their own ideas on how to ‘make a difference’. Once the ideas begin to germinate in their minds, they have two to three years to work on them while they are still at the university.
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
Young people have the potential to shape a better world. They have the energy and the will to deep dive into problems and look for solutions. Introducing them to the social sector right in the beginning of their higher education journey through social internships will create future change makers, social entrepreneurs, compassionate leaders and problem solvers that our country needs.
Published 08/12/2020
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024