In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The country’s geographical location has the potential to generate solar energy. The government of India and intergovernmental agencies are looking forward to source and supply energy resources to meet the demands of citizens and industry.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Mansha Dhingra
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Transportation engineering
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
According to Dr. Sushabhan Chowdhury, Department of Electrical and Electronics, UPES, “The demand for engineers working in the renewable sector will no doubt increase in the coming years. Engineers are needed to research, design, and construct ways to find new, eco-friendly, and sustainable sources of energy. The renewable and sustainability sector is a great choice for students. UPES is one of the few institutions offering a specialisation in B.Tech. Renewable and Sustainable Energy.”
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Energy systems design, conventional and renewable
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Graduates in renewable and sustainable energy can work in the following areas:
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Consultancy
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
With the world’s core resources depleting and causing damage to environment and ecosystem, the industry is rapidly moving towards sustainable technology. For instance, energy-saving appliances, electric vehicles, access to solar energy and finding alternatives for plastic usage etc.
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Why UPES School of Engineering?
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
Environmental engineers
Energy auditors
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Published 09/02/2021
Given the new industrial revolution, it is important that we re-look the existing engineering specialisations by introducing some new-age courses that will be relevant in the future years. B.Tech. Advanced Materials and Nano Technology, B.Tech. Medical Devices, and B.Tech. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Engineering are some of the advanced engineering programs.
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Earlier, renewable energy technologies had an environmental niche. But today, the sustainability of renewable energy demonstrates a key economic driver in generating revenue, creating jobs, and stimulating technological developments. Planning, financing, installation, storage, distribution, operation, maintenance, processing, and renewable electricity sales and grid management, opens the door for countless job opportunities.
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
Energy management and project management
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
Defence
Civil and construction
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
UPES School of Engineering, Dehradun, is at the forefront of delivering education that ensures students are job-ready as soon as they graduate. Sector-centric knowledge, along with practical and theoretical knowledge enables students to make a mark. Additionally, students can pursue minor specialisations in latest technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Robotics and Self-Driven Vehicles, Internet of Things, Data Analytics and Blockchain. Academic-industry alliances with giants such as the London School of Business, Singapore, Larsen and Turbo, and Microsoft give an edge to UPES students.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Research and development
India is the second-largest populous country and the fastest-growing economy in the world. This has led to increasing demand for energy in India. Due to its dense population, the pollution level in India has also risen. The Indian government is planning to boost the production of renewable energy. Solar energy, wind energy, thermal energy, biomass energy, and tidal energy are important renewable energy resources in India. At present, all the major industries need to monitor energy use. This implies that opportunities for renewable and sustainable energy engineering graduates across all sectors (such as the food industry, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, medical device, and transport sector) will rise sharply.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Engineering is a vast field of study that is going to remain until we cease to exist. Industrial revolution 4.0 has introduced several new technologies (Internet of Things, Machine Learning, and Robotics) that engineers need to imbibe to meet future demands.
Manufacturing industry, particularly big energy users, such as food, pharmaceuticals, and transport industries
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
Sustainable Renewable Energy
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Program engineers
At UPES, students are offered world-class academic infrastructure, multimedia-enabled classrooms, modern research labs, large expanse of sports fields all around the campus, food courts, hostels, and other facilities for curricular and extracurricular activities. A premier institution of learning with an emphasis on holistic development, the university develops and hones future leaders for diverse high-growth sectors, both in India and overseas.
Design engineering
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
upes school of engineering
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
A promising future for specialists in B.Tech. in Renewable and Sustainable Energy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Process engineering
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?