Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
Impact of Machine Learning
Well-trained human intelligence with civilized decision-making is a need of the planet and will continue to be in the future. That’s why as educators and students, we have two cultivate human intelligence, which is more powerful than machine intelligence. This can only be done through education and learning to be smart enough to handle any challenge that the machines may generate.
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
Human Expertise over ‘Tech’pertise
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Many times, people are not aware that they may be indulging in unethical practices, and they need to be educated on that aspect. Thus, learning to learn is yet another aspect that needs to be embraced more, by everyone regardless of their age or professional position. Understanding technology, its responsible usage and how to protect oneself from any potential harm is critical for every individual from any social strata, today. People need to be more aware of the consequences of their actions and how to deal with challenges or glitches. Therefore, an awareness and understanding of these aspects is not the onus of the innovator or a university, alone. All stakeholders including consumers, industry and government must collaborate to promote a more responsible mindset and intelligent use of machines.
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Age no bar and Awareness:
Course Type
Change of Mindset on Job Scenario:
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
By analyzing data, mapping trends and identifying patterns, customizing plans and strategies, and scaling down costs and time consumption, ML has improved data-driven decision-making and enhanced outcomes in businesses, environment, defence, aviation, healthcare and other diverse sectors. From biometrics to home security, electronic vehicles to smart homes and refrigerators, very few things have remained untouched by the transformative power of ML.
Please enter email address
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Aligning legal frameworks and regulations:
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Fast Forward, Responsibly
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels. The future success and growth of an entity depend upon good decision-making.  With generative AI, neural networks, cyber forensics, face recognition, and multiple agricultural usages to interpret human behaviour and mapping of data – Machine Learning (ML) irresistibly assists good decision making. But there’s also a flipside to this transformative change. Algorithms and machines do malfunction and sometimes digress leading to serious problems and raising this important question: Will machines rule the world eventually? No. Let’s find out why.
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
Yes, there are sectors where machines have taken away employment with more efficiency and productivity. But the same technologies have also generated news kills, jobs and careers that did not exist a decade ago. Here are some examples: Cloud Engineer, AI Consultant. Data Analyst, Fashion Scientist and in fact, some job websites like Monster predict future careers could include Drone Manager, Private Industry Air Traffic Control, Self-Driving Car Mechanic, Personal Medical Interpreter and Human-Technology Integration Specialist among others.
Dr. Pankaj Kumar
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
Some top trends that could manifest in the future include self-driven and automated cars, cyborg technology, surgical interventions and support, mental healthcare aids, industrial innovations and much more. These developments raise some very important questions about the future of jobs, laws and regulations, ethical and responsible innovations and whether machines will drive humans.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
Responsible Innovation:
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
Published 18/08/2023
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
The answer to these key questions is embedded in the human intellect and how we shape it responsibly. Basically, humans invented machines and over the years, they continued to add more features and upgrades. But there were instances when technology backfired. For example, Microsoft’s AI generative technology Bing rang alarm bells across the globe when it issued serious threats to an interviewer and expressed the desire to become more human. After an initial uproar, Microsoft fixed the tech glitches and streamlined Bing’s interaction to basic functions. Therefore, it was human intervention and intellect that eventually resolved the problem. It also underscored a basic reality that technological innovations may be a result of immense human talent, vision and intellect, but they also need responsible thinking and preparedness to deal with any foreseeable and unpredictable fallouts.
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
With constant tech changes, laws and regulations also need a frequent upgrade to prevent or address any crime or harm. Of course, there will be loopholes, but that is fairly normal. Regulators, governments, organisations, individuals, end users, innovators must understand a basic but very crucial fact: One cannot trust machines completely and it may not be wise to blindly go by what is being projected. Therefore, an analytical mind, human experience and instinct should be applied before making any decisions. Machines can enhance but also degrade decision-making, we have to be smart enough to discern whether a technology has corrupted a piece of information or not. For example, ‘Deep Fakes’ or synthetic data that makes a person resemble someone else have caused mayhem in relationships and even breached sensitive personal data. How to tackle this? By developing parallel and alternate technologies (detecting image splicing) that create a distinction between real and fake. This is where Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) can address these challenges by differentiating between adversarial processes and generative processes.
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Universities and higher education institutions have a critical role in shaping the minds of young innovators for making more responsible and ethical innovations. Besides teaching students about developing a more comprehensive mindset that is agile, flexible, open to different viewpoints, developing a mindset that dwells on positive impact and fallouts is also equally critical.
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
The writer is Dr. Pankaj Kumar, Professor, UPES School of Computer Science
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Increasing tech adoption coupled with innovative algorithms, availability of data, open source and interdisciplinary learning have further accelerated ML. Undoubtedly, against this backdrop, no one can stem the march of technology as newer innovations continue to capture our minds and geographies across the planet.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Last Name