Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
7 April
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
With the evolving technologies at our fingertips and the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic, well-trained nutritionists, or registered dieticians play an important role in serving the residents. Introducing telemedicine! A method for providing healthcare services via technology such as video chat, telephonic, emails, or instant chats. Health experts can no more be limited to one country in an increasingly globalized world.
upes school of health sciences
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
UPES School of Health Sciences offers specialisations in nutrition, dietetics, food biotechnology, food plant engineering and others. The demand for health experts and skilled professionals in these sectors was highlighted by the current pandemic. UPES School of Health Sciences covers all the fundamental, principle and advanced techniques of food analysis for quality food development and measurement. To build a knowledgeable nutritionist, dietitian, and food industry professional in the country, education in these sectors should focus on creating professionals equipped with knowledge and skills for upcoming technologies. UPES is committed to developing professionals and healthcare experts who will be active change-makers and solution providers for the healthcare sector.
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
world health day
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
tele medicine
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Dr. Shuchi Upadhyay
The writer is Dr. Shuchi Upadhyay, Associate Professor, UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
26/07/2024
Tele nutritionist uses scientific tools and approaches to evaluate an individual’s eating habits, food intake, lifestyle choices and create a personalized dietary plan while monitoring the calorie intake.  Telehealth and nutrition counselling covers both the use of interactive, specialized dietary treatment for disease prevention, consultation, therapy, and nutrition plan. Nowadays, there are innovative techniques to identify body fat, Body Mass Index (BMI), Basil Metabolic Rate (BMR), and ideal weight.
Please enter mobile number
role of nutritionists and dieticians
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
nutritionists and dieticians
Nutrition plays an important role in the mental and physical health of an individual. Lack of vital nutrients can lead to a weak immune system, malnutrition, and other disorders. The nutritional status of a human body is measured by the food intake and absorption of nutrients. Nutritional deficiencies of energy, protein, and specific micronutrients are associated with low immune function and increased susceptibility to infection. For instance, a nutritional deficient newborn may have mild to serious learning cognitive disabilities, which further lead to poor physical and mental growth. Therefore, optimum nutrition, providing all the nutrients in the right quantity is the cornerstone of good health.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Tele nutritionists suggest diet plans and offer personalized and efficient health services via different platforms to individuals from the comfort of their homes.  Advancement in the latest technologies such as AI and ML and signal processing techniques are widely applied to many food safeties, awareness, and quality control programs. All these factors must be analyzed in-depth before a diet plan is drawn.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
The role of tele dietitians and tele nutritionists is to prevent and control diseases and promote quality of life by encouraging proper nutrition i.e. choosing foods high in nutrients and low in calories.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Due to the rapid advances in technology, even dieticians are branching out of the traditional office, clinical setting and offering virtual nutrition counselling services remotely. Dieticians can help prevent diseases through the importance of food in the diet, nutrition programs, meal planning and adequate knowledge about healthy and unhealthy foods. The need for proper guidance and a customized diet plan is essential because of several reasons such as chronic illnesses, different metabolism, lifestyle, calorie requirement, and activity level.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Published 07/04/2021
Last Name