+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, decoding its history, and contributing to crucial areas like natural resource management, environmental protection, and hazard assessment, geology stands as one of the most captivating and rewarding career choices. Dive into this fascinating field and unlock its allure for a lifetime of exploration and discovery. Geoscience, the scientific study of the Earth’s structure, processes, and history, has an inherent allure that captivates individuals from all walks of life. This multidisciplinary field combines elements of physics, chemistry, biology, and environmental science to unravel the planet’s mysteries. Here, we delve into the reasons why geology is often regarded as one of the most attractive and rewarding career paths. Geology challenges the mind with complex problems that require critical thinking and problem-solving. The ability to make a tangible impact on society is a rewarding aspect of the profession.
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
You’re probably familiar with the historic Apollo 11 mission, which brought humans to the Moon. Ever wondered how NASA knew where to land the spacecraft? Mr. Eugene Merle Shoemaker, who founded the USGS Astrogeology Research Center in 1963, played a crucial role in mapping the lunar surface and providing essential data for Apollo astronauts. In 1981, the Geological Society of America created the Planetary Geology Division to expand our understanding of planetary geology beyond Earth. As we venture into the cosmos, planetary geology continues to evolve, driving our quest for knowledge and exploration.
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
Dr. Annapurna Boruah
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
Geoscience Education: Navigating the Route to Net Zero Emission and Bright Career Horizons
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Published 10/11/2023
Please enter mobile number
However, geology is not just a profession; it is a journey of exploration and learning, contributing to a better understanding of our planet and its future. It’s a career that appeals to those who are passionate about making a positive impact on the world.
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of geoscience jobs is projected to increase by 14% over the next decade, which is faster than the average growth rate for all occupations. As reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), there are approximately 3,00,000 geoscientists and 8.7 million STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) workers employed in the United States. The average median salary for geoscientists is $83,811, while STEM workers earn an average median salary of $81,413. Both of these median salaries significantly exceed the overall annual median salary of $35,080 for the entire U.S. workforce. Petroleum geologists earn an average salary of $129,550 per year, mining geologists earn an average salary of $98,670 per year and environmental geologists earn an average salary of $84,060 per year.  When it comes to career prospects in the UK,  industry trade association Offshore Energies UK (OEUK) has revealed that the sector supported 213,600 oil and gas jobs in 2022, an increase of over 6% from 2021 (200,800 in 2021). According to My Energy Future, the UK energy sector is expected to see 10,000 new entrants by 2025. This surge in employment is fuelled by the growing demand for resources, a demand that geologists play a crucial role in meeting.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
The writer is Annapurna Boruah, Associate Professor, Energy Cluster, UPES School of Advanced Engineering
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Geologists, geoscientists, and geoscience engineers are indispensable contributors to climate change research and efforts to mitigate its impact. Leveraging their expertise in reconstructing past climates, creating paleoclimate models, evaluating climate-related risks, advancing carbon capture and storage techniques, and advocating for sustainable resource exploration, geologists provide invaluable insights and solutions to confront the challenges presented by climate change. Geological formations store carbon dioxide (CO2) captured from industrial processes, reducing emissions. Geothermal energy harnesses Earth’s heat for zero-carbon heating. The subsurface safely stores hydrogen for low-carbon power and transport. Critical minerals for renewable energy and electric vehicles are sourced from global mineral deposits. Detailed geological knowledge ensures the safety and sustainability of low-carbon energy projects like wind and nuclear power. Climate change affects groundwater, coasts, soils, and landscapes, leading to increased geohazard risks such as landslides, sinkholes, and flooding. Geological research enhances our understanding of environmental changes and geohazards, guiding adaptation efforts for greater societal resilience.
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
In India, there are abundant opportunities for geologists, spanning various sectors, including the private sector and public sector undertakings (PSUs). Maharatna companies like ONGC, NTPC, IOCL, BPCL, HPCL, CIL, GAIL, among others, provide particularly promising prospects for geologists. These organisations offer diverse roles and projects, making the field of geology a promising and dynamic career choice in India.
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?