+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
Mathematical bent of mind:
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Space technology deals with the study of the universe. The basic purpose of this branch of study is to assist spaceflight, satellites and space study. Did you know that a lot of gadgets and emerging technologies are the result of space technology?
Team spirit is a major aspect of space technology as it is marked by discussion and exchange of ideas. Suggestions, when put forth by a team member, is open to debate at times. In the end, after complete unanimity, the mission is launched.
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
School of Engineering
Practical training:
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
However, there are no free lunches, so to speak. Space technology is challenging as well as exciting. Individuals, who are driven by a curiosity to make sense of the universe, have it in them to become astronauts. They have to undergo rigorous training and meet certain physical fitness standards to be declared eligible for this post.
Anybody who has mastered space science can get a call from NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) which is a US governmental agency. It is always a space technologist’s dream to work with NASA.
Mobile Number
Aditya Mukherjee
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Scope of Space Technology for a B.Tech. student -
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Also, graduates of B.Tech. programmed in aerospace engineering are hired by ISRO. They are also entrusted with advanced projects.
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
Skills a space technologist needs to possess
By
Data science companies, Amazon, LinkedIn and Walmart Labs, space research centres ISRO and NASA, are some of the leading recruiters for space technologists.
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Team worker:
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
Please Select Course Type
There is a smorgasbord of career opportunities waiting to be tapped for a space technologist. Some of the most sought-after jobs are in areas like weather forecasting, remote sensing, satellite television and long-distance communication systems.
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
Top recruiters for space technologists -
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of space and have excellent problem-solving skills, then a career in space technology is tailormade for you.
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
With so much advancement in space technology, can the likes of Elon Musk be far behind? SpaceX, a Space Company, owned by Elon Musk, has come up with a unique way to send rockets and bring them back to the earth by vertically landing them on a concrete pad. This is a major technological leap which no aerospace agency has attempted before.
-- None --
Many reputed organizations provide internships for young aspirants for space study to get hands-on experience. They get to know in detail about the roles and responsibilities of a space technologist.
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
Space technology is now pushing the frontiers of change and innovation by developing new applications to meet the growing demands and needs. In India, many start-ups have got into the act of developing their satellites and vehicles to provide space-based services.
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Leadership skills:
Consumer products like LED lighting, freeze-dried foods and portable cordless vacuums, are some of the gifts of space technology research.
Please enter last name
Mathematical accuracy is integral to space technology. Precise calculations need to be made during space odysseys. Routes for satellites, space probes and rockets are decided with the use of mathematics. Factors like distance, speed and velocity are properly calculated for designing spacecraft.
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Leadership skills are much sought after in space technology. Space mission needs someone with excellent leadership skills so that they can lead from the front and take things to their logical end.
Make no mistake, there is high demand for space scientists, and they are essentially hired on the basis of their skills. If you are an impassioned space science enthusiast and ready to push forward the frontiers of technology, institutions are always willing to offer you lucrative jobs.
This new-fangled technology has helped lower the cost of launching rockets manifold, improving space travel and space tourism as well.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Analytical skills:
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
Once you acquire a B.Tech. in Space Technology, the sky will literally be the limit for you. Job offers will come in thick and fast from top space institutions in India, including the ISRO. If that is not enough, there will always be senior staff to guide a newly minted graduate in space technology.
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Published 02/08/2022
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Emotional intelligence:
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Image credit: Pexels
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Possessing sharp analytical skills is the sine qua non of space technology. It is only through analytical skills that one can assess the benefits of new technologies for facilitating space explorations meant to explore outer space.
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
Space technology, as we know it, plays a crucial role in human lives in myriad ways. From warning people of impending disasters to weather forecasting to climate monitoring, this particular technology saves thousands of lives every year. It’s this kind of depth and breadth of scope in space technology that makes students, with a degree in B.Tech., evince keen interest in this branch of engineering.
Space organizations have now started to test the level of emotional intelligence in space scientists. Emotional intelligence plays a major role in handling people and facing catastrophes.
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?