Have a look at the video below:
+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Industries across the globe are undergoing a major overhaul – thanks to the massive data collected over the Internet (read 3.5 billion searches per day on Google and 1.2 trillion searches per year worldwide). With the internet moving from desktop to smartphones and now even smart-glasses, everyday data is rapidly increasing. New-age technologies such as Big Data Analytics is transforming this data into information and then insights. As we stand on the brink of Industry 4.0, technology is set to change the way we live.
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Mansha Dhingra
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
success mantras for engineering aspirants
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
As the younger generation prepares itself to enter the workforce in such a dynamic environment, UPES conducted a webinar with the founder of Super 30 and a renowned academician, Mr. Anand Kumar. Regarded as one of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Anand shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to strive in today’s competitive world.
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
domain. He adds, “Hard-work and determination are all you need to excel in the field.”
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
When asked about the best engineering program for girls, Anand Kumar says, times are changing, and
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
26/07/2024
To encourage more female students to continue their higher education after class XII, UPES is continuing its scholarship program initiated in 2020. For the academic year 2021, UPES has announced 20% scholarship for girls. UPES, through its women empowerment initiative ‘Shakti’, endeavours to encourage more female students for the ‘classroom to boardroom’ journey and prepare women leaders across various sectors.
Excerpts from the webinar:
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
Sharing some inspiring real-life stories, Mr. Kumar said that hard work is the key to success. “If you continuously and consistently work towards your goals, you will surely reap the benefits. Apart from dedication and perseverance, you need to be prepared to face all the failures and challenges and see them as learning opportunities. A persistent and never-give-up attitude will help you succeed in life.”
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Engineering institutions must adapt to a new type of learning – learning that caters to the evolving needs and demands of the world; learning that uses a combination of technology and human power to take engineering a notch higher every day.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Published 25/02/2021
Shedding light on some personality traits of a successful engineer, Anand Kumar says, creativity, and innovation are increasingly important personality traits in the national and global industry and play a pivotal role in engineering education. Passion is the fuel that will drive your career. If you have the passion, you will be willing to put in all the efforts. The more passionate you are about something the more successful you will be at it.
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Emerging technologies, and the prospect of solving social problems through technology, makes engineering a particularly exciting and important sector. New jobs will require versatility in engineering discipline along with skills to achieve goals in a constantly transforming business environment.
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
women too can have a successful career in the engineering
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
upes school of engineering
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
“Successful engineers have an aptitude for solving complex problems. Engineering jobs require an ability to think outside the box and visualise alternative solutions and scenarios. Therefore, engineering aspirants should be able to relate their text-book knowledge to real-world problems. This will give students the potential to recognize how an engineer can transform human lives and contribute towards society,” adds Anand Kumar.
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?