7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Diana George
This one-time district skating silver medallist is hungry for success and has no plans to stop until he makes it to the top.
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
The 1st Year MBA Integrated student of UPES is well on his way to achieving his life goal as he became a proud recipient of the fifth highest award in literature in India – the Sahitya Vidhya Samman. He received the honour in August this year from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Shri Pushkar Singh Dhami and former Education Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank for his contribution to literature.
02/01/2025
12/09/2024
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
Published 23/09/2023
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
UPES student Aditya Vats has several feathers in his hat. He is a prolific writer, former debating and skating champion, singer, social worker, part-time teacher, and civil services aspirant
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Vats, a product of St Joseph’s Academy in Dehradun, has been writing for the past six years. Many of his works have been anthologies such as The Enchanting Words and The Zenith of Writing.
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Among his other works are A Pinch of Life, The Laws of India, The Heart Speaks, The Last Call, Obscurities of Entity, and Bonds of Love.
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
This former state-level debating champion has been volunteering for NGOs. His diverse interests led him to explore  certificate courses in Food and Health from Stanford University, California.
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
“This book covers the British rule, the role of women in the Indian freedom movement, and many other regional aspects which have been the outcome of many years of keen observation of the linguistic and cultural phenomena of the whole Himalayan region – from Ladakh in the west to Bhutan in the east – and an intensive study of ancient Indian literature and historical incidents that have taken place in these central Himalayan regions,” Vats adds.
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Tags
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
Vats likes to credit his maternal great-grandfather for his writing prowess.
14/09/2024
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
By
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Vats is also thankful to his parents for “keeping their faith in me and supporting me when I penned my first story”.
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
His next goal? Cracking UPSC IAS Exam.
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
A history buff, Vats pored deep into the annals of the Indian subcontinent for The Art of Indian History and scoured the archives from the Uttarakhand region for his hardcover The Garhwal Diaries.
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
“I give the credit to my maternal great-grandfather, Shri Hari Prasad Aviksit ji, who had been a prolific writer. He had worked with Shri Harivansh Rai Bachchan ji who would visit our home sometimes,” Vats says.
“The Garhwal Diaries is a pioneering attempt in which the complete history of Uttarakhand, from Stone Age to 1949, when Tehri Garhwal state was integrated with the Indian Union, has been compiled in one single volume,” Vats says, describing his book.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Apart from earning an Honourable Mention and two Best Delegate awards at Model United Nations summits in 2021 and 2022, the civil services aspirant bagged the prestigious Spectrum India award in the same years for literature in the category of ‘Budding Writer’.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
Vats, who is also pursuing a B.A. (Hons) in Public Administration through open learning, has several accomplishments to his name.
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Vats’ prolific skills, however, are not limited to writing. The self-confessed nature enthusiast loves to sing, skate, debate, take heritage walks, and participate in social work as well as cultural campaigns when not committing his hours to serious study or forming writing clubs.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
He describes himself as an active supporter of the Swachh Bharat Mission, a country-wide campaign initiated by the Government of India in 2014. Vats and his family have been a part of many local afforestation campaigns to convert barren lands into refreshing green covers.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Vats himself has worked with eminent author Ruskin Bond, at the latter’s cottage in Landour Cantt, Mussoorie, in connection with his books on Indian and Garhwal history.
School of Business
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
“Work until your signature becomes your autograph” – that’s the motto 19-year-old Aditya Vats lives by.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name