Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
In the hospitality industry, IoT is projected to enhance customer service, and reduce operational costs, thus having a positive impact on the top-line objectives of the company. The use of smart devices, such as smart locks, air conditioning systems, and smart lighting, among many other offerings, makes the stay more convenient. IoT has the potential to offer an exemplary guest experience while simultaneously improving the efficiency of the hotel staff.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
The Internet of Things (IoT) has made smart homes and cities possible; the true potential, however, lies in its ability to process gigantic amounts of data generated by connected devices. The Internet of Things helps in the automation processes, optimizing efficiencies and providing predictive insights. IoT will certainly dominate our lives in the near future.
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
What is the Future of the Internet of Things (IoT)?
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
AI is transforming IoT devices by providing machine learning capabilities and allowing devices to make intelligent decisions autonomously.
09/09/2024
First Name
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Artificial Intelligence:
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
IoT in manufacturing promises improved operational efficiency with predictive maintenance, remote monitoring, and real-time asset tracking. Moreover, IoT makes possible better collaboration between humans and machines, ensuring correct implementation of safety standards and overall product quality.
IoT is considered extremely beneficial for farmers in many ways.  For instance, IoT sensors can monitor soil moisture, temperature, and other relevant factors to help farmers make informed decisions regarding which crops to sow to optimize crop yields, reduce waste, and prevent crop loss. IoT can also assist in the automation of irrigation and spraying systems, alleviating the manual burden on the farmers. Animal tracking devices can assist farmers in managing their livestock’s health, thus, reducing the risk of disease outbreaks.'
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
https://www.pwc.com.au/consulting/assets/publications/acs-pwc-iot-report-web.pdf
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
All in all, IoT is an exciting space that is continually evolving. It is crucial for businesses to stay relevant by keeping themselves well-versed with the advancements in IoT to leverage the benefits of this technology fully.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
The writer is Dr. Kaushik Ghosh, Associate Professor, UPES School of Computer Science
12/08/2024
https://online.jcu.edu.au/blog/data-science-iot
01/10/2024
25/07/2024
*
The availability of 5G networks will provide the necessary speed and bandwidth to handle the surging demand for IoT devices and their data.
The potential of IoT in smart cities is limitless. IoT technology provides for traffic control, sensor-based water management systems, waste management, and the general monitoring of a city. The result has been an increased level of productivity and improved living standards globally.
Interoperability:
First and foremost, IoT is helping improve safety and reduce traffic congestion. Connected cars can communicate with other vehicles and infrastructure to prevent accidents. Moreover, IoT future technology is working towards fleet management, helping companies monitor fuel usage, vehicle maintenance, and driver behaviour in real-time.
Businesses are increasingly incorporating IoT-as-a-service to implement IoT solutions because of its affordable nature.
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
References
Interoperability refers to IoT devices’ ability to connect and communicate with each other, promoting greater data sharing and integration.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
Advancements in technology have fuelled the growth of The Internet of Things (IoT). As we approach the end of 2023, the future of IoT looks brighter than ever with various trends and predictions on the rise. From advancements in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence to the rise of smart cities and integrated supply chains, the possibilities for IoT seem limitless.
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Submit
Select Course
IoT in Agriculture:
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
IoT in Hospitality:
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
A subscriber email already exists.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
IoT in Healthcare:
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
https://journalofbigdata.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40537-019-0268-2
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Dr. Kaushik Ghosh
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
IoT in Transportation:
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
IoT in Smart Cities:
Edge Computing:
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
5G networks:
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Published 11/12/2023
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
IoT in Retail:
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Future of IoT
IoT in Manufacturing:
IoT has been particularly beneficial in remote monitoring of patients. It enables real-time health tracking, and predictive maintenance of equipment, and is also being used to support drug development. Wearable devices are being used to monitor vital signs and send alerts to doctors regarding any changes in a patient’s condition. Smart hospital rooms are being designed to track patient movements and adjust lighting, temperature, and ventilation accordingly.
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
How can conservation be improved by computation?
Now considered the driving force in industries like healthcare, transportation, retail, and manufacturing, IoT is deemed to have transformative power, renovating these industries like never before. This is also because technological changes are happening at an ever-increasing speed, creating immense pressure on organisations to lead with innovation, or at a minimum, adapt ‘fast enough’ to meet the global requirements.
The Internet of Things (IoT) is changing almost all industries across the globe, and healthcare, agriculture, and transportation are no exceptions. IoT is enabling a new era of data-driven decision-making, automation, and optimization. Let’s see how different industries are benefitting under the umbrella of IoT.
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
11/09/2024
Rise of IoT-as-a-service:
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
https://www.knowledgehut.com/blog/web-development/iot-future
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Latest Trends
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
The future of IoT technology is indeed promising. The world is experiencing a significant transformation, and IoT has a crucial role to play in this revolution. Predictably, the future will be based on various innovative technologies such as Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, 5G, and edge computing. The Internet of Things is all set to revolutionise industries such as healthcare, agriculture, manufacturing, logistics & transportation.
IoT devices are processing data on the edge, enabling faster operation and an increase in overall efficiency.
privacy policy
Last Name
IoT has drastically transformed the shopping experience. The use of RFID tags and sensors on shelves makes it easier for the staff to track inventory and assists in making real-time stock management decisions. It also enables personalised advertising by offering credible customer insights to improve overall shopping experiences.