Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
All things considered, computational science—which encompasses data analytics, modelling, and simulation—is vital for maximising conservation tactics and reaching wise judgments. It makes it possible for policymakers and conservationists to balance several conservation-related features while accounting for ecological, economic, and social concerns. The end goal is to manage natural resources sustainably and preserve biodiversity.
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
The writer is Saurabh Shanu, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Computer Science
20/12/2024
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
A subscriber email already exists.
Fighting environmental deterioration and biodiversity loss requires an all-encompassing strategy that incorporates public support, legislation, education, and science. While legislation informs conservation initiatives, scientific research aids in understanding the origins of environmental problems and the effects of human activity. Education influences people’s engagement in conservation initiatives by increasing public understanding of environmental concerns. Government financing and decision-making about conservation are influenced by public support. To solve environmental issues, governments, non-governmental organisations, and community organisations work together. Scientific research is used to guide policy choices and public awareness initiatives. Adaptive management, or changing policies based on continuing monitoring and scientific results, is a key component of successful conservation programs. For a sustainable future, cooperation between scientists, legislators, educators, and the public is essential.
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
Saurabh Shanu
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
26/07/2024
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Published 10/11/2023
Please enter mobile number
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
A variety of tactics are used in conservation to save and maintain ecosystems, animals, natural resources, and cultural legacy. Creating protected areas, passing laws to regulate environmental activity, repairing ecosystems, putting in place programs to conserve species, advocating sustainable resource management, educating the public, carrying out research, involving local communities in conservation efforts, cooperating internationally through international agreements, conserving historical and cultural sites, promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy, implementing water management practices, and encouraging waste reduction and recycling are common strategies. To combat environmental deterioration and biodiversity loss, effective conservation initiatives need to combine science, policy, education, and public support. To guarantee that conservation initiatives continue to be successful and flexible in the face of shifting conditions, adaptive management, and continuous assessment are essential.
Email Address
How can conservation be improved by computation?
11/09/2024
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources. This includes the preservation of natural resources, animals, ecosystems, cultural heritage, historical and artistic works, energy, water, and habitats on land and in water. Achieving a balance between environmental preservation and human demands is the aim since it guarantees resource availability for future generations while reducing ecological damage. Legal restrictions, environmental policies, protected areas, sustainable agriculture, forestry, research, monitoring, and public awareness campaigns are a few examples of conservation practices.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
privacy policy
Data analysis, modelling, and decision support are all made possible by computational science, which is an essential tool in conservation efforts. It processes enormous volumes of data on biodiversity, habitat conditions, and environmental variables to help detect trends, risks, and possibilities for action. Geographical analysis enables the mapping and monitoring of ecosystems and biodiversity, while predictive modelling aids in simulating and forecasting the effects of conservation initiatives. Resource allocation is optimised by computational algorithms, population diversity is understood via genetic analysis, and resource management techniques are evaluated through sustainability evaluation. Automated monitoring systems can identify illicit activity or alterations to ecosystems, assisting decision-makers. Additionally, the public may be involved in conservation efforts by using computational tools to raise awareness and gather data for citizen science projects.
Last Name