That these change-makers are so young only makes their passion to lead much more impressive. At a time when the global problems are on a surge, it is essential – and refreshing – to see Generation Z take charge.
Fearless Falcons’ YouTube channel
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Leadership Conclave 2021 – Teaser
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
For event details and registration, please visit
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
So what are you waiting for? Get ready to be inspired.
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfE9j-1LDCzLzgnl1igXm5QgH1TacdUk1f5vtwrgd_DtBcWQA/viewform
Students will present their business model/start-up idea and let the audience scrutinize and decide the best pitch.
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
Outlining the purpose behind organising the event, she adds, “The main target audience are the students who are trying to find their purpose in life and also bring about a change in the process. Even if one lesson from a mentor does that for one student, the event will be a success.”
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Published 09/08/2021
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
‘Fearless Falcons’ is one such cohort of students who are helping the youth to ‘find their fire’. Led by UPES students Anmol Singhal and Disha Tripathi, the team is organising a ‘Leadership Conclave’ under the banner of School for Life. The team members working for the event include Aditya Pilani, Aryan Deopa, Ayush Patidar, Falguni Soni, Hinika Shail, Vagisha Khandelwal, Mrittika Bajaj, Himali and Harsh Baranwal.
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
For Anmol and Disha, leadership is an act of improving each other’s lives, and having interactions with pioneering mentors will help students find their path. “We think that a mentor or a leadership figure will enhance the students’ capabilities and drive them to do what they really want to do,” says Associate Team Lead Disha, a student of
Detailing the schedule of the conclave, Team Lead Anmol, who is studying
Tags
Submit
UPES School for Life
Computer Science and Engineering
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
A combination of fate, skill and strategy, ‘The Stock Triumph,’ is a game based on the stock marketplace that will allow students to put their talents to the test using news flashes and real-time data.
– an institution that nurtures students to develop comprehensive skills for personal and professional success – several students have undertaken projects with the intent to create a profound impact in the world around them.
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Activities on Day 2 include:
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
The virtual seminar will be held on August 28-29, 2021, and will witness the participation of eminent leaders and students from across the country. The recorded sessions will be premiered on the
1. Stock Triumph:
A strong sense of self is evident as they speak – a trait they attribute to the role models in their families. “I look up to my father. If one day I can become even an iota of the person he is, it will be a huge achievement for me,” Anmol says. For Disha, her grandmother is her inspiration. “My grandmother lost her father when she was very young. Despite the hurdles, she paved her way and became successful in her field. She retired as the principal of a school.”
3. What Would You Do:
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
B.Tech. Food Technology
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
2. Pitch Arena:
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Since the inception of the
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
with a specialisation in AI and ML, says, “Day 1 will feature several prominent guest speakers who will discuss their insights on leadership; on day 2, a variety of meaningful activities will take place. For the event, we are receiving registrations from students of various institutions such as BITS Pilani and Indian Institute of Management.”
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORQZEd9EdUc
(L-R) UPES students Disha Tripathi and Anmol Singhal, lead organizers of ‘The Leadership Conclave 2021’
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Life@UPES
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
A three-round contest in which students will face intense and challenging scenarios. Quick decisions will have to be made to win the contest.
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024