5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management
The first time I stepped out of the campus was for the 3rd World Water Summit held in New Delhi. That opened my eyes to the enormity of the water crisis and how we could use innovative ideas to solve this global problem.
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
During Covid, when we were forced to work from home, I was selected as an intern at Digital Marketing at Sarvodaya Infotech where I learned how communication, technology and innovations impact my area of study, i.e., LSCM.
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
Industrial visits to Volvo, Bengaluru; Unibic, Bengaluru; and Tupperware, Dehradun, exposed me to industry operations and sustainable business practices.
The writer is Ankit Saxena, student, MBA Logistics Management, UPES School of Business (2019-21)
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
No words can sum up my gratitude and admiration for the faculty at UPES. Dr. Neeraj Anand, HOD, Department of Transportation Management, was like a father like figure to me, forever ready to guide and lend a helping hand. Course Coordinators, Asst. Prof. Rohit Sindhwani (1st year) and Dr. Rupesh Kumar (2nd year), were also very helpful. Even in Covid times, they ensured smooth functioning of our online classes. Our Placement-in-Charge, Dr. Rupesh Kumar, along with Dr. Saurabh Tiwari from the Department of Transportation Management, helped us in securing gainful internships.
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
I got an opportunity to be on the discussion panel for ‘Budget 2020 Young Minds
Thereafter, I got an opportunity to be on the discussion panel for ‘Budget 2020 Young Minds’, organised by Education Ahead in association with India Ahead News and hosted by UPES, where I put forth my views on why “we need inventors before investors”.
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
During the orientation program we were divided into four houses and we used to engage in group activities. And then came the Dale Carnegie workshop for personality enhancement. It really helped me with my
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
The camaraderie with my classmates  and a friendly, competitive environment shaped me into the people-oriented person that I am today. I shall forever cherish the memories of my time at UPES. It has given me lifelong sounding boards in the form of my teachers, besides providing me the best possible opportunities to discover my strengths and reinvent myself.
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
I decided to enrol for post-graduation five years after completing my graduation. The journey started in July 2019 at UPES. I came to the university with the aim of scoring good grades and enhancing my personality. But the fear of failure kept me confined to the campus for nearly two months.
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
Ankit Saxena
UPES School of Business
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
Working on a dissertation was also an enriching experience. I researched ‘Green Supply Chain Practices in Electronics Industry in India’ to gain insights on consumer perceptions regarding the use and disposal of electronic products in our country. It also helped me in mapping the impact of existing supply chain practices on our environment.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
communication skills, collaboration and critical thinking
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
All the faculty members were so supportive that I soon overcame my reticence to emerge as one of the most interactive students in the class! I could also connect my theoretical knowledge with real-world problems. I learned how important connections and networks are in helping a person succeed. At the E-Farewell, the Dean of UPES School of Business, Dr. Githa S. Heggde gave us an assurance that the faculty would be there for us at all times. This just goes to show how committed the university is towards its students.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
And then there were events like Wow Wednesday, Logistikas, Uurja, Udaan, Eltonia, Ignite, Manthan, etc., that kept us busy and entertained all year round.
Published 29/06/2021
How the university taught me the power of networking
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Academic events such as Agro-Horticulture Supply Chain Conference (AHSCC) and Supply Chain Summit, helped me to know how policies are planned and how debates and discussions lead us to find the best solutions. I also learned about new researches and innovative strategies being implemented in the industry. Interactions with alumni and industry experts, masterclasses and guest lectures further kept me updated about the market trends.
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022