7 Must do Courses along with BBA
Unless you attend a top-tier institution, exposure to international business practices and global networks can be limited.
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
b) Global Exposure
15/10/2024
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
First Name
Graduates from top Indian institutions are highly sought after by domestic companies and multinational corporations with branches in India. Common job roles include Consultant, Financial Analyst, Marketing Manager, and Product Manager. The average starting salary can range from INR 10-30 lakhs per annum, depending on the institution and industry.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
With thousands of MBA aspirants competing for spots at top Indian institutions, securing admission can be challenging.
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Factors Influencing the Decision
Some international MBA programs may offer unique specializations that are less commonly found in India, such as Luxury Brand Management or Sustainability and CSR.
Higher Average Salaries:
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Cultural Adjustment:
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Specializations:
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
a) Cost of Education
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
An MBA abroad offers unmatched global exposure. Students benefit from an international network, diverse cultural experiences, and a different educational approach. In contrast, an MBA in India, while providing high-quality education, often offers more limited international networking opportunities unless you attend a globally recognized institution.
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Visa and Work Restrictions:
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
An MBA abroad provides a diverse international network, while an MBA in India helps build strong local industry connections.
Published 13/12/2024
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
Career Prospects
Return on Investment (ROI):
Conclusion
Disadvantages of Pursuing an MBA in India
High Cost:
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Call Me
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
MBA in India:
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
d) Entrance Exams and Admission Process
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
In India, entrance exams like CAT, XAT, or NMAT are standard for admissions, while many international universities require GMAT or GRE scores and language proficiency tests like TOEFL or IELTS.
Quality Education at Top Institutes:
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
If your aim is to work in India post-MBA, then pursuing an MBA in India may be more relevant. Conversely, if you want to explore global career opportunities, an MBA abroad can offer better exposure.
14/09/2024
Key Points to Consider Before Choosing
One of the most significant factors to consider is the cost. An MBA in India is generally more affordable compared to pursuing an MBA abroad. The total cost, including tuition fees and living expenses, can vary widely between countries. While studying abroad often entails higher expenses, there may be more opportunities for scholarships and financial aid.
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Long-Term Career Goals:
Cost-Effective:
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
An MBA from a recognized international institution can open doors to job opportunities worldwide.
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
MBA programs in India typically last for two years, whereas many MBA programs abroad (especially in countries like the UK) can be completed within one year, which can be advantageous for those looking to return to the workforce sooner.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
Graduates often secure roles in global corporations as Investment Bankers, Business Consultants, Strategy Managers, and Operations Directors. The average starting salary varies significantly by country, but typically ranges from $80,000 to $150,000 per annum.
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
Networking Opportunities:
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Table of Contents:
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Adapting to a new culture and way of life can be difficult for some students.
Please enter mobile number
Schools like IIMs, ISB, and XLRI offer world-class education, often at a lower cost than comparable international programs.
Tuition and living expenses can be prohibitively expensive without scholarships or financial aid.
Advantages of Pursuing an MBA in India
04/10/2024
MBA programs in India are generally more affordable than their international counterparts.
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
--None--
Advantages of Pursuing an MBA abroad
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
Competition:
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
c) Duration of the Program
Strong Local Network:
MBA Abroad:
Graduates from prestigious international institutions often command higher starting salaries.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory. One of the most crucial choices is whether to pursue your MBA in India or abroad. This blog will explore the factors, advantages, disadvantages, and career prospects of studying in both scenarios to help you make an informed decision.
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Access to Global Job Markets:
Deciding between an MBA in India or abroad requires careful consideration of various factors, including cost, global exposure, career aspirations, and networking opportunities. Both options have their own set of advantages and challenges, but the key lies in aligning your choice with your career goals and personal preferences. Evaluate your priorities and make an informed decision that sets you on the path to success.
Studying in India provides a robust network within the Indian business landscape, which can be beneficial for those planning to work in India post-graduation.
Limited Global Exposure:
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Working in a foreign country post-MBA can be challenging due to visa restrictions and regulations.
Assess the potential return on investment, considering both the immediate costs and long-term salary benefits.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Our counsellors are just a click away.
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
Disadvantages of Pursuing an MBA Abroad
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Advantages of Pursuing an MBA Abroad
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Disadvantages of Pursuing an MBA abroad
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
You gain a broader understanding of business practices and cultural nuances.
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Become future-ready with our Business programs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Global Perspective:
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name
Know More