Become future-ready with our Liberal Studies programs
B.Sc Course Structure:
+91
Decide if you plan on pursuing further studies and in which field. This will guide your choice of an undergraduate program.
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
Similarities Between BA and B.Sc
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
The choice between BA and B.Sc depends on your career goals, interests, and strengths. If you are more interested in creativity, humanities, and social sciences, a BA would be a better fit. On the other hand, if you are inclined toward analytical thinking, science, and research, a B.Sc is the right path.
Course Type
Scientific research institutions
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Skills Acquired Through Programs
Key Aspects to Consider Before Choosing
Please enter email address
Offers lab work, research projects, and experiments as part of the curriculum.
Analytical and quantitative skills
BA Graduates can find work in:
Career Paths for B.Sc Graduates:
Public relations and communications
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
Salary Comparison
Published 13/12/2024
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Skills Acquired
Which Is Better?
Conclusion
Industries to Work In
Call Me
Data analysis and information technology
BA Course Structure:
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
BA graduates generally start with salaries ranging from $30,000 to $50,000 annually, depending on their field and industry. Positions in communication, media, and public relations can offer higher starting salaries.
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
BA Degree Skills:
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Understanding of cultural and social contexts
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
BA (Bachelor of Arts) focuses on liberal arts and humanities, offering a broad and flexible curriculum. It is ideal for students interested in subjects like literature, languages, history, political science, sociology, and fine arts.
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
Core Differences between BA and B.Sc
Opt for BA if you enjoy subjects like history and literature. Choose B.Sc if you are passionate about physics, chemistry, or technical fields.
Both BA and B.Sc degrees offer valuable skills and open doors to diverse career paths. The key is to align your academic interests, strengths, and career aspirations to make an informed decision. Whether you choose a BA for its creative and analytical approach or a B.Sc for its technical and practical focus, both can set you on a successful career path.
Teaching and academia
B.Sc Graduates are often employed in:
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Interest in Subject Matter:
Mobile Number
Specializations include Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Environmental Science, and Computer Science.
Industries to Work in
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Choosing the right undergraduate degree is an important decision that can shape your future career path. The two most popular options for students in the arts and sciences stream are BA (Bachelor of Arts) and B.Sc (Bachelor of Science). Both degrees come with their own set of advantages, course structures, and career opportunities. This blog will explore the differences, similarities, course structures, specializations, career scope, and the key factors to consider before making your choice.
Subscribe
Both degrees provide ample opportunities for postgraduate studies. BA graduates can pursue an MA (Master of Arts) or professional courses like MBA or LLB. B.Sc graduates can opt for M.Sc (Master of Science), M.Tech, or other technical certifications. Additionally, both can lead to Ph.D. programs, depending on the area of interest.
Media and journalism
By
the
09/01/2025
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Creative problem-solving
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
Critical thinking and analytical skills
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
Future Career Scope and Prospects of Higher Studies
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Emphasizes theoretical and practical knowledge of scientific concepts.
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Similarities between BA and B.Sc
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
B.Sc (Bachelor of Science), on the other hand, centers around scientific and technical education. It is designed for students who have a keen interest in subjects like physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics, and computer science.
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Marketing and advertising
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Table of Contents:
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
Future Career Scope & Prospects of Higher Studies
Public administration and policy
Healthcare and pharmaceuticals
Please enter mobile number
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
B.Sc graduates may start with a range from $35,000 to $70,000 annually, especially if they work in healthcare, IT, or engineering. The demand for technical skills can lead to higher compensation as experience increases.
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
Determine where you want to see yourself in 5-10 years. This will help you align your degree with your professional goals.
--None--
Healthcare and clinical professions
Allows for a broader range of electives and interdisciplinary subjects.
Technology and IT firms
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Specializations include English Literature, History, Psychology, Political Science, and more.
Please enter last name
Social work and public policy
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
BA vs. B.Sc: Which Undergraduate Degree Is Right for You?
B.Sc Degree Skills:
Research and development
Engineering and technical consulting
Engineering and environmental organizations
Future Studies and Specializations:
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
Technical and practical application of knowledge
Focuses on humanities and social sciences.
Content writing and journalism
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Our counsellors are just a click away.
Data analysis and logical reasoning
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Effective communication and writing
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Career Aspirations:
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Education and academia
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Prospects of Higher Studies:
Course Structure & Specializations Offered
Core Differences Between BA and B.Sc
Both BA and B.Sc degrees require three to four years of study, depending on the country and university. They can lead to further educational opportunities such as master's programs, certifications, or professional courses.
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
Problem-solving in scientific scenarios
Career Paths for BA Graduates:
18/02/2025
17/09/2024
Know More