The writer is Sugandh Agarwal, student, UPES School of Computer Science
Food start-up incubated at UPES seeks to empower local communities
Dr. Sravendra Rana, Senior Associate Professor at UPES School of Advanced Engineering, is developing materials that can repair autonomously and help in preventing airplane accidents. This breakthrough in airplane safety can be a game-changer in the aeronautical industry
Trending Post
Last Name
A diet trend that promotes health and longevity
+91
First Name
Sugandh Agarwal
Published 22/04/2021
Secured an All India Rank – 2 in in the order of merit in Computer Science Engineering for Technical Graduate Course -132 entry of Indian Army
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
Email Address
Mobile Number
While I was in UPES, I became a part of various student chapters and clubs and started participating in several competitions. With constant efforts and motivation and support from UPES faculty and fellow members, I was appointed at different positions and became the Chairman of Computing Machinery Student Chapter in my fourth year.
Tags
Have a design-related question? This prof has all the answers
Is intermittent fasting a step towards a healthier lifestyle? It is generally safe and does not result in energy level disturbances or increased disordered eating behaviours.
UPES alumnus Aryan Singh founded ‘FitBread’ with Akshit Saxena and Aditya Kashyap.
-- None --
UPES faculty members are experts in their subject and provide students with a multi-disciplinary, holistic, and a unique framework of learning. I was fortunate enough to work with them in various research-related projects.
Submit
Course Type
Please select Course
--None--
UPES School of Computer Science
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
UPES provided opportunities for holistic development; proud to join the Indian Army
Subscribe
Select Course
Year 2018 sparked my journey to explore the Defence Services. Officials from ‘Drishti’ of the Indian Air Force came to our campus to share offers from the Services and their experiences. Being the grandson of an Army Brigadier and motivational talk by Drishti officials, helped in my decision making to join the Defence Services.
. The specialisation I chose imparted core knowledge about data analysis for business applications. The course curriculum equipped me in areas of data mining technology to identify various patterns useful in predicting different business outcomes. The specialisation gave an insight into the technique to sync an organisation’s operations with industry demands and benefit from the upcoming opportunities.
Dr. Divya Rawat
Related Articles
Extensive research during undergraduation on how to prepare oneself to succeed in written examinations and SSB (Service Selection Board) helped me in clearing and achieving my goals. During SSB interview, I was judged on my analytical skills, intelligence, and personality. There was a psychological and a personal interview as well.
By
Please enter email address
the
UPES alumnus and CWG silver-medallist Navneet Singh
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering with specialisation in Business Analytics and Optimization
The merit list for TGC entry to Indian Army prestigious training institution viz., India Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, was declared and in the order of merit in Computer Science and Engineering I secured All India Rank – 2. It was a dream come true.
I would like to advice my juniors to set goals for themselves and then start preparing to achieve the same. It may be Services or any other domain, but to fulfil their passion and dreams, they have to stay updated on current affairs, general knowledge, basic engineering, mathematical and logical reasoning skills. They should also work on themselves to enhance their personality with good communication skills which are extremely important to clear any competitive exams.
Please Select Course Type
Sports scholarships motivate athletes: CWG silver medallist and UPES alumnus Navneet Singh
What should students entering the field of design must know? How has the industry changed over the years?
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
privacy policy
A subscriber email already exists.
Big sporting feats at UPES in 2022
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
I joined UPES School of Computer Science in the year 2016 to pursue under graduation in
test_user
What if cracks could self-repair and prevent aircraft accidents? A researcher is making this possible
Participating in these extracurricular activities gave me a lot of exposure and prepared me for future challenges.
In September 2020, I got a call to appear for SSB (INET) for the Indian Navy, Bengaluru. In November 2020, I got a call to appear for TGC entry for Indian Army, Kapurthala, and for Indian Air Force (AFCAT), Gandhinagar. My happiness knew no bounds when I was recommended by all three Services Selection.
UPES alumnus and Commonwealth Games medallist Navneet Singh (left) and shooting champion and student Deeya Chopra (right).