The ultimate purpose of UX design is to create user-friendly, relevant, and all-round pleasant experiences for the user.
If UX design identifies and solves user problems, UI design is all about creating aesthetically-pleasing, interactive interfaces.
school of design
+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
A user interface is about the interaction between the user and a digital device or product—like the touchscreen on your smartphone, or the touchpad you use to select what kind of tea or beverages you want from the vending machine.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
A UX designer thinks out of the box so that the user always experiences something unique about the product he is using. The designer also undertakes task analyses to see how users actually complete tasks in a user flow.
Image credit: Unsplash
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
The job of user experience (UX) designers is to make the product look extremely attractive and alluring by adding eye-catching features which the consumers find difficult to ignore.
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
It all boils down to a matter of convenience for the user. It is the UX designer who has to ensure that the checkout process of the user when shopping online is hassle-free. If your online banking app makes it easy for you to manage your money, then the credit for this goes to the dexterous UX designer who makes it possible.
UX design is always conspicuous by its prominence in the product development process, followed by UI. The UX designer follows the trajectory of the user journey; the UI designer embellishes it with visual and interactive elements.
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
The rise of sustainable fashion
On the other hand, the real advantage of a good user interface (UI) is visualisation. The general customer does not prefer to read too much information, so giving the content hierarchy, visualising it, making it legible and easy to understand are the crucial decisions you need to take while defining a user interface.
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
UI design as a career provides ample opportunities for growth and success, not to mention, an attractive salary package.
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Aditya Mukherjee
Tags
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
As you get ahead in your career, take up new challenges that give you more experience and responsibilities. Working on different types of projects will bring out the best in you and teach you how to respond to them.
Select Course
UX can make a qualitative difference to any kind of product, service, or experience whereas UI is integral to digital products and experiences.
B.Des in User Experience and Interaction Design
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unlike UX, UI design is digital in nature.
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
You can take your career as a UI designer to the next level if you are imaginative, have a fine eye for visuals and are creatively inclined; all you need to do is scratch the itch to become a UI designer.
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A UI designer focuses on the effectiveness of icons, buttons, spacing, typography and colour schemes.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
A UX designer can go on to hold managerial positions like UX manager, UX director, and creative director.
26/07/2024
Published 23/08/2022
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
UI vs UX Design
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
Career prospects for UX designers
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
Develop solid interpersonal and leadership skills, as managers oversee groups of people and can interact with employees outside of their team.
The demand for UX designers is steadily on the rise. As UX designers gain experience, they have a plethora of opportunities to handle prestigious projects.
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
With their ear to the ground, companies are doing everything they can to make sure the buyers’ mobile and web experiences are positive ones. And it is the UX designers who make all this happen.
The amoebic pervasiveness of the internet, technology, and social media have given consumers greater purchasing power, choices, and higher expectations when it comes to interacting with digital products.
05/08/2024
UI Design as a career option
Being a UX designer, you don’t necessarily need to be a UI designer but you need to take control of the entire customer journey. These include the technology, the marketing, and even the research aspect, apart from having a good understanding of the experiences of the customer or the user.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
In this age of digitization, product manufacturers always look for innovative ways to grab eyeballs through their websites and apps. Businesses are going the extra mile to invest more into their UX in order to retain a competitive edge in a market defined by frequent change in tastes and preferences of consumers.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
In relation to websites and apps, UI design puts more emphasis on the look, feel, and interactivity of the product. It’s also about making sure that the user interface of a product is as intuitive as possible, and that means carefully considering each and every visual, interactive element the user might encounter.
Related Articles
In some places, UX design team members are in great demand because of their creativity, specialised skills, and the sheer uniqueness and variety they bring to the products.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
Role of a UX designer
UPES offers
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name