Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Provide opportunities for students to build academic and social skills and practice professional networking skills.
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
Equip students to make informed decisions.
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Help students in their transition to the university environment and navigate their programs of study.
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Therefore, educational institutions should understand that mentoring is an integral part of young adults’ understanding of leadership and assists first-year students in adapting from school to university culture. These programmatic interventions have diverse content (seminars, workshops, necessary resources, and research material) and are structured quite differently.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Mentorship programs guide students to proactively direct learning in higher education by inculcating effective study habits, offering a supportive and collaborative environment for good teaching, learning, research, innovation, and ideation. These programs help students to develop into more confident, self-directed independent learners. Mentors help mentees apply knowledge gained in classrooms to everyday life and translate life experiences into learning opportunities. Mentoring initiatives improve academic skills by helping students with school projects and encouraging the use of libraries and other research materials available. By providing information, guidance, and encouragement, mentors play an important role in nurturing students’ college aspirations, helping them prepare for the professional world and advising them on how to make successful transitions from high school to their first year on campus. In addition, students feel more connected and engaged on college grounds, which can ultimately improve their results.
Shape students into confident graduates, with leadership, communication, critical thinking and other skills important for transition into the workplace.
Objectives of the program:
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
mentorship program
Tags
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Please Select Course Type
Guide students about the various career opportunities available and support their personal growth.
A subscriber email already exists.
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success. Personalized direction to students helps improve attitudes, values and skills needed to master the curriculum and develop self-confidence
UPES Mentoring Program
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The program mentors first-year students to smoothly transition to a university atmosphere. Second and third-year students gain knowledge about various organisations, learning experiences and lucrative career opportunities. Students also get access to professional networks. Final year students are mentored by professionals who assist them with the transition from university to employment. These professionals are either UPES alumni or industry experts supporting the program.
Mentor-mentee relationship
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
A mentor is envisioned as someone who is a counsellor, an experienced guide, a trusted ally, a teacher, one who instructs, chides, and assists the students in attaining success. A mentor helps students discover and develop the potential within themselves to succeed in the university and life. An effective mentor is respectful, reliable, patient, trustworthy, and a good listener and communicator.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
Outcomes of mentoring programs not only depend on the objective of the program but also the relationship between mentor and mentee. Mentor competence and mentee commitment go hand in hand. While the journey of each individual mentor-mentee is unique, each mentoring relationship is built on trust, understanding, respect, and compassion, regardless of where that journey leads.
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Enhanced mentoring also serves as a personal enhancement strategy through which one person facilitates the development of another by sharing known resources, ideas, learning, expertise, values, skills, perspectives, attitudes, and proficiencies, and professional competence. It allows the learner to build skills and knowledge while increasing their career prospects.
Developing students’ capacities, skills, values, and attitudes is possible through a well-structured mentoring process and learning experience. These frameworks can change a young person’s attitudes about school, their perception of academic competence, and motivate them to evolve.
Role of mentorship in academic excellence
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
UPES mentorship program
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Says Ram K Sharma, Dean, Academics, UPES “The Mentoring System at UPES is designed to help every student transit successfully from the school to the university environment and achieve his/her full academic and personal potential by providing him/her with efficient, effective and timely advice, guidance and support. Mentoring System not only helps students think through their life goals or major professional decisions, but has also been designed to inculcate a sense of belonging in every student. It reaffirms that the university cares for every student and is committed to his/her success and well-being.”
UPES has launched a mentoring initiative to encourage interaction, provide guidance to students and enhance their chances of academic success. A mentor will be assigned for every 25 students who will be personally responsible for their personal and professional growth. The Mentoring Program provides lifelong learning and developmental opportunities for the students. The primary objective of the program is to promote students’ development in specific areas.
Further, mentors provide students with the emotional and psychological support needed to advance their careers and succeed. Structuring mentoring framework imparts advanced education to develop students into research scholars, policymakers, and public and private sector professionals involved in the complex globalized economies of the 21st century.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
The transition from school to university is a life-changing experience for young adults, as it involves many challenges. First-year students have to manage their new study schedules, build social networks and friendships, and adjust to the requirements of the university style of learning and teaching. Furthermore, with rapid advancements in globalization, technology, and societal development the demand for a workforce that is responsive to complex problems that are often systemic and require innovative solutions.
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Published 15/06/2021
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name
mentor-mentee system