This whole concept of ‘soul brother’ is what you find at the core of many war novels. The book ‘All Quiet on the Western Front’ published in 1929 is seen by many as a seminal text in the genre of war stories of young soldiers who are voiceless. It also talks about society in normal circumstances, like you have done, but also what happened in the war.
It was a series of letters by French soldiers, which were collected by historian Jean Pierre Guéno. These letters written by young soldiers from France were touching and poignant. Since I come from two cultures, I wondered if there were any letters written by Senegalese infantrymen.
Jaya:
How much do you think has war literature evolved? Were there any war novels that influenced your writing?
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
Jaya: David, for how long did you do the research? And how did you know when to stop and start writing?
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Published 15/09/2021
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Jaya: Ana, how long did it take you to translate this text from French into English?
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
David:
, moderated the event; Uma Sridhar was the translator for David for the session. Excerpts:
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
I chose to find a rhythm to the French language, which would go with the rhythm of the African language, Wolof. The second reason is that the stream of consciousness technique allows readers to be closer to the character in a situation of extreme violence.
Frère d’âme contains a pun in French that incorporates the idea of a brother of the soul with a brother of arms or a brother in the war. And both, ‘brother in arms’ and the soul brother exist, but they have specific meanings. You cannot combine them in English in the same way.
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
I had a list of the names and one of them was ‘At Night All Blood Is Black’. I felt like it could work even though it was so different from the actual title.
I don’t specifically remember. It is a condensed novel, but there were times when in the quest of the translation, I did feel overwhelmed that maybe I would not get to the end, but that did not happen. I was working on it part-time; I am not a full-time translator. So, probably, over a year.
So, my first idea was to invent i.e. to write a fictional letter. But, finally, I decided to write a book. I created a person who did not speak French, giving readers a stream of conscious character.
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Could you tell us about the repetition of the phrase ‘God’s truth’ when the protagonist utters it?
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
But David has his own story about this. (laughs)
I, Alfa Ndiaye, son of the old, old, man I understand, I shouldn’t have. God’s truth, now I know. My thoughts belong to me alone, I can think what I want. But, I won’t tell. The ones I might have told my secret thought to, my brothers-in-arms, who will be left so disfigured, maimed, eviscerated, that God will be ashamed to see them show up in Paradise and the Devil will be happy to welcome them to Hell, will never know who I really am.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
But in this case, it seemed like so much would be lost if we did that; it wouldn’t have the poetry of the French title. Hence, in conversation with my editor, I began to keep track of other phrases from the book that we thought might work as a title.
https://www.facebook.com/IFInde/videos/878604196
Mobile Number
Tags
Excerpts from the book ‘At Night All Blood Is Black’:
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
school of modern media
The International Booker Prize is awarded annually for a single book, translated into English, and published in the United Kingdom or Ireland. The £50,000 prize was split between David and Anna, giving the author and translator equal recognition.
By
the
09/01/2025
The French author in conversation with his English translator, Anna Moschovakis, and Assistant Professor, UPES, Jaya Bhattacharji Rose, talked about his book ‘Frère d’âme’ (‘At Night All Blood Is Black’), which won the International Booker Prize 2021
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
More than 30,000 Senegalese infantrymen had died on the battlefield in France during the First World War. I looked for letters written by them but found impersonal administrative letters, none of which showed their intimate connection to the war.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is not every day that International Booker Prize winners give a detailed account of their writing process, the techniques they used, why they chose a specific title, and the books that inspired them. UPES in collaboration with the French Institute in India brought French author David Diop and Anna Moschovakis, who translated his book ‘Frère d’âme’ in English (‘At Night All Blood Is Black’), on one platform. The book won the International Booker Prize 2021.
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
David Diop’s guide to writing an award-winning novel
The repetition of this phrase underlines the strong emotional tension which the character is feeling at that moment. It also helps in lending a certain rhythm to the French language.
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
Jaya: Why did you change the title?
-- None --
--None--
Watch the full session here:
Actually, ‘At night All Blood Is Black’ was the title I had thought I would give the book in French. Finally, I decided to keep Frère d’âme. I think the English title is perfect; it suits the book very well.
What prompted you to write ‘At Night All Blood Is Black’?
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
I chose the stream of consciousness technique for two reasons: the first was technical, to make my readers understand that the character does not speak French. But I wrote in French.
Sometimes, for marketing reasons, the publishers will change the title. At times, I have fought to preserve a more literal translation of the title of the original.
…I KNOW, I UNDERSTAND, I shouldn’t have done it.
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Anna Moschovakis
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
I don’t know whether you did it consciously or not, but I found that some of the adjectives in the opening pages were being mirrored in the penultimate pages, a fascinating way of encasing this powerful story. It was as if it was going back into time; there is a repetitive element.
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
David Diop, 2021 International Booker Prize Winner
UPES School of Modern Media
I had read many historical documents before writing this novel, but I did not take down any notes because I wanted to conserve my effective memory. I read a lot of documentation, but mainly I read a thesis on Senegalese infantrymen written by a historian. After I had finished reading, I let my thoughts rest like dough. But I cannot tell you exactly when my thoughts had ripened enough to start writing.
Ana, you have brought a sensitive understanding to the English translation of the book. For me, this novella is powerful even though it is a fictional construct.
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Did you choose the ‘stream of consciousness’ as a literary technique because it fitted the war atmosphere the best or did it enable you to inhabit the grey area between the written structured form and the spoken word?
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Jaya Bhattacharji Rose, Assistant Professor,
Related Articles
I was lucky in the sense that I never came to know war or encountered something similar. But war literature, for me, reveals extreme kinds of situations, and it also explains how traumatic incidents affect the young generation.
The book which inspired me was ‘Journey to the End of the Night’ in French by Louis-Ferdinand Céline. Another book was ‘The Bloody Hand’ written by Blaise Cendrars, a Swiss poet and writer. He had participated in the first world war, and this book manages to place the reader in a borderline situation. I also think that we can go back to Iliad written by Homer, a poignant text which shows the fine barrier between human and inhuman.
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
Literary awards help catapult authors, and in this case, translators in the limelight. They increase discoverability. The Booker Prize holds a special place in readers’ hearts. It not only enables voracious leaders to discover new literature, but it also enables new readers to uncover different kinds of literature. In fact, in the classes that I teach at UPES, I have my students looking for literature in these ways.
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
One of the things that the book does so well is in the way the structure and form connect to the content using limited vocabulary. A small number of words and phrases are used throughout the book. I certainly paid attention to mirroring as the French do. I did what the book did. The kind of power that comes from the repetition of those metaphors or phrases gives the effect of the inescapability of the reality of the situation.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
industry connect
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
Anna:
17/09/2024