7 Must do Courses along with BBA
BBA degree gives you a chance to pursue your passion and hobbies and turn them into a profitable career, as it allows you to explore and experiment with your interests and preferences and find your niche and potential.
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
BBA programs incorporate international business topics like international trade, intercultural communication, and global supply chains for careers in a globalized economy.
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Specialization Options:
BBA is also a comprehensive course that covers all the essential topics and subjects that are relevant to the field of business and management. BBA gives you a holistic and practical exposure to the various functions and operations of a business, such as planning, organizing, leading, and controlling.
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
We hope you found this blog helpful and informative. If you have any queries, suggestions, or feedback, please feel free to comment below. We would love to hear from you. Thank you for reading and all the best for your BBA degree.
Please enter email address
BBA also prepares you for higher studies, such as MBA, M.Com, CA, CS, CFA, and more. These courses can help you to gain more knowledge and expertise in your chosen field and advance your career prospects. BBA also equips you with the entrepreneurial skills and mindset that can help you to start your own business or venture and become your own boss. BBA also enables you to pursue your passion and hobbies and turn them into a profitable career.
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
BBA is a Gateway to Multiple Career Options
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
BBA degree gives you a wide range of career options to choose from, as it prepares you for various industries, domains, and roles in the field of business and management.
BBA degree gives you a competitive edge over other graduates in the job market, as it demonstrates your knowledge, skills, and aptitude in the field of business and management.
Conclusion
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective.
Advantages of BBA over B.com
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
BBA degree is one of the best undergraduate courses that can help you to achieve your career goals and aspirations. BBA degree is a flexible, comprehensive, cost-effective, and high-return course that can provide you with multiple career options and advantages. BBA degree is a course that can make you a successful and versatile business professional.
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Management Focus:
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
Entrepreneurship skills are valuable for all students and BBA programs offering courses on entrepreneurship, including business plan development, venture funding, and innovation management can be a valuable learning experience.
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
Now that you know the compelling factors for choosing a BBA degree, let us look at some of the career advantages of BBA degree. These advantages are:
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
A subscriber email already exists.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
One of the main reasons why BBA is a compelling choice for your undergraduate course is that it is a flexible and comprehensive course that can cater to your interests and preferences. BBA offers you a wide range of specializations and electives that you can choose from, such as finance, marketing, human resources, international business, entrepreneurship, and more. You can also opt for a dual specialization or a minor specialization to enhance your skills and knowledge in a particular domain.
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Global Business Perspective:
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
04/10/2024
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
Entrepreneurial Skills:
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
BBA is a Cost-Effective and High-Return Course
UPES Editorial Team
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
Develops Business Acumen:
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
BBA degree gives you an opportunity to start your own business or venture, as it develops your entrepreneurial skills and mindset that can help you to identify and exploit business opportunities and challenges.
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
Going beyond accounting and finance, a BBA enhances key areas like business strategy, marketing strategy, and operations management, giving a holistic understanding of how businesses function.
In this blog, we will share some of the compelling factors for choosing a BBA degree and its career advantages. These factors will help you to understand why BBA is a great choice for your future and how it can benefit you in the long run. So, without further ado, let’s get started.
Published 19/07/2024
BBA is a Flexible and Comprehensive Course
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Career Advantages of BBA Degree
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Another reason why BBA is a compelling choice for your undergraduate course is that it is a gateway to multiple career options that can suit your goals and aspirations. BBA opens up a plethora of opportunities for you in the field of business and management, both in the public and private sectors. You can work in various industries, such as banking, insurance, retail, hospitality, tourism, IT, consulting, and more.
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
UPES Admission Enquiry
A BBA emphasizes on management principles, leadership, and soft skills like communication and teamwork.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The third reason why BBA is a compelling choice for your undergraduate course is that it is a cost-effective and high-return course that can give you a good return on your investment. BBA is a relatively affordable course that can fit your budget and financial constraints. BBA also offers you various scholarships, grants, and loans that can help you to fund your education and reduce your financial burden. BBA also has a high demand and value in the job market, which can help you to secure a well-paying and rewarding job after your graduation. BBA also has a high scope and growth potential, which can help you to climb the career ladder and achieve your professional goals.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
BBA allow learners to specialize in areas such as business, such as marketing, finance, human resources, or entrepreneurship. These specializations give graduates a competitive edge in the job market.
Last Name
BBA degree gives you a solid foundation for higher studies, as it equips you with the essential concepts, theories, and models that are required for advanced courses, such as MBA, M.Com, CA, CS, CFA, and more.