+91
12/09/2024
First Name
The project also won India’s most prestigious design award ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’ and the ‘D’source DIC-BHU award’, hosted by IIT Bombay in the same year.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
Given that the project required extensive groundwork, they had regular team meetings daily at 7 am. “We had to start together, discuss everything from the challenges that we faced while doing our tasks to the progress we had made so far. It took six-months of intense hard work to build the final product,” Ishaan recounts.
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week. The project is essentially a hyper-local renting service, focussing on making college essentials accessible sustainably
Awards galore for UPES design project
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
A shift in thinking can move mountains. Ishaan Gupta, Kousik Dutta, Lakshya Agarwal, and Aditya Rajput, who have always been curious students, wanted to bring about a change in the world by changing people’s mindsets. Their passion to make a difference was not sparked by a single event, but a series of experiences.
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Trending Post
Published 27/03/2023
Talking about his role in the team, Kousik Dutta, a fourth-year UI/UX student says, “I was responsible for the overall documentation, storytelling and had an important role to play in designing the overall service blueprint of Renteco.”
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Tags
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
UPES Design students who designed ‘Renteco’
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
How did the team manage to make renting not buying ‘the new cool’ among college goers? Ishaan reveals, “Bringing a change in mindset is always a challenge. Hence, to encourage more renting, we incorporated a fun gamified system that rewards people who return the items in good condition. We made sure that our service appealed to the masses while still being practical.”
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
UPES School of Design
26/07/2024
Sustainability Warriors
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Sharing his experience, Aditya Rajput says, “I had an exciting six-month experience working with industry leaders and mentors to design digital experiences, create a viable and profitable business model, and create system maps and mental models. It was a challenging opportunity to push our limits and showcase ourselves on an international stage.”
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
They all had their unique set of skills and expertise. The task was designing a new service that would push the boundaries of what was possible. And as a team of four highly skilled and motivated individuals, they were determined to make it happen.
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Designed for students, Renteco is C2B2C (Consumer to Business to Consumer) used item hyper-local renting service focussing on making college essentials accessible while taking care of the planet by decreasing waste. They are fully circular, as they rent only used items. After their lifecycle is complete, they dispose of the items with the help of recycling plants and scrap dealers.
“From the very beginning, we were determined to solve a problem that was both local and global,” says Ishaan, a B.Des. student at UPES with a specialisation in User Experience and Interaction Design (UI/UX).
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
UPES Stars
Their team was assigned two industry mentors – one from IBM and one from IKEA, who constantly guided them throughout the process.
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
So, when they were tasked with designing a new service that would revolutionise the industry, they knew exactly what they wanted to do. They designed ‘Renteco’ for Student Service Design Challenge, an international competition hosted by Philips Experience Design in collaboration with Service Design College. The global contest aims to celebrate, encourage, and inspire the next generation of designers.
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Lakshya Agarwal, a fourth-year Graphic Design student says, “I was mostly responsible for the video documentation and graphic design part of the project.” While Ishaan was responsible for understanding the needs and wants of the target audience, gather data and insights, perform competitor analysis to identify the gaps in the market, and find opportunities for innovation.
Their diligence paid off and how! Project Renteco received an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week. About 90 teams from prestigious universities and schools around the world participated in the competition to create more ‘people-centric, planet-positive’ services.
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
Renteco
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
privacy policy
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name