7 Must do Courses along with BBA
One of the greatest skills you can have in Business is the ability to get through to people, help them see your viewpoint, and reach a midway of acceptance that’s beneficial to both parties.
+91
In a world where business and education transcend borders, gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever.
The Taboo of Indian Cricket Sponsors
The future of international business – What to expect in post-COVID era
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
15/10/2024
First Name
In today’s competitive world, businesses thrive on professionals who can navigate financial complexities, analyze data, and make strategic decisions.
The writer is Prof. Rahul Nainwal, Director, School of Business, UPES
Trust:
MBA Vs. Executive MBA: Similarities, Differences, Salary, How to Choose
Top BBA Specializations for Success in Tomorrow's Job Market
Future of Work: Key Workplace Trends For 2024
Future managers should blend technology and business for a turnaround in logistics and supply chain management sector
Published 26/07/2023
Training & Development:
24/10/2024
MBA India or Abroad? Factors Influencing Decision Making
Here’s how AI can be the game-changer in Supply Chain Management
Business professionals will have to upskill in International Business laws, which themselves would be altered to suit the post-COVID world.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Burnout, stress, quiet quitting, rage applying and resenteeism are the new age realities of workplaces and organizations, across the globe. And they will not disappear into thin air anytime soon unless organizations, workforces and industry agree on a massive shift of perspective. It’s time to embrace energy management over time management at the workplace. Even statistically, it’s the right thing to do.
The Subtle Art of Persuasion: Neuromarketing and Its Impact on Consumer Behaviour
Please enter email address
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) and an Executive MBA (EMBA) are the two most popular options when it comes to advanced business degrees.
The job of HR practitioners is to bridge and build the social fabric that got destroyed by the pandemic. HRM leaders need to be equipped with ingenious solutions to ensure that employees cope during unforeseen crises.
7 reasons to pursue Public Administration
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is a 3-year undergraduate course that covers various aspects of business management, such as accounting, finance, marketing, human resources, operations, and entrepreneurship.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
What’s Next After BBA? Clear the Confusion & Find Your Next Course!
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
4 reasons why one should experience hostel life
*
Russian students immerse themselves in the enriching and multicultural environment at UPES
Top 10 Tools Used by Business Analysts: Unlocking Business Potential
With the rise of globalization and technological advancements, the demand for skilled managers and leaders is higher than ever.
Compelling Factors for Choosing a BBA Degree and its Career Advantages
15 Successful Women Entrepreneurs and Their Stories
In today's fast-paced world, the aviation industry stands as a pillar of global connectivity and economic growth.
Why energy management scores higher than time management at the workplace
Trending Post
MBA Marketing Vs. MBA Finance: Which to Choose?
23/09/2024
Break Time:
Exploring the latest trends and insights in MBA HR
Please enter first name
Have you ever found yourself humming a catchy jingle or craving a specific snack after seeing an ad? If so, you might be wondering if advertisers have somehow hijacked your brain. The truth is, they might be doing just that, but not in the sinister way you might imagine.
After completing graduation, choosing the next step of your career could be really stressing as this is going to be a crucial step of your future journey.
Mobile Number
85% of Jobs Are Filled Through Networking! It’s surprising but true networking is the key to unlocking career success.
Over the years, BBA has become a very popular choice. However, competition is tough and if you wish to stay relevant and outshine the crowd, getting enrolled in a few courses along with BBA is a good idea!
Submit
Select Course
5 innovative strategies for effective HR management in the energy sector
of UPES.
Subscribe
14/09/2024
By
UPES student Aditya Vats receives the Sahitya Vidhya Samman from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami
the
Mistakes can happen anywhere – be it one’s personal or professional life – and they can cause pain, anger, or loss to someone. Companies today are quick at damage control actions, but quite often leaders fail to apologize effectively
According to a report by the International Labor Organization (ILO), titled Working Time and Work-Life Balance around the world, “Working-time laws and regulations on maximum daily hours of work and statutory rest periods are achievements that contribute to the long-term health and well-being of a society and must not be put at risk.” The report has concluded that a balance can bring benefits for economies, businesses and workers, including greater productivity.
Someone rightly said, “A well-chosen specialization is like a Compass, guiding your career journey toward success and ensuring you navigate the complexities of the business world with precision and confidence.”
Please Select Course Type
Pursuing an MBA after completing a B. Tech degree has become a popular choice among engineering graduates.
B.Com. in Banking and Insurance can help young job seekers get offers in areas as diverse as corporate sector, budget planning, banking sector and public accounting firms among others
Let your people know that you trust them, by allowing them to build their own schedules, define timelines and pack in elements that make work more flexible. This not only boosts their confidence and sense of job satisfaction, but it also ensures they feel more valued and engaged in their organization.
Confused between BBA & B.Com? Understand differences, career scope, opportunities & industry demand. Make the best decision for a successful future!
Hostel life can transform your personality completely. Stepping out of the comfort of your home equips you with all the essential life skills you need to survive.
BBA vs. BCA: Which Is Better for Your Career?
A subscriber email already exists.
Just a break for a quick lunch or coffee is not a big booster. Employees should be allowed to define or set the frequency of their breaks and what they would like to do in that ‘off time.’ It can work wonders on productivity and their own well-being.
13/08/2024
UPES-KPMG Collaboration Powers Industry-Ready Learning For Management Students
17/12/2024
Top MBA Specializations for 2024: Discover the Best Path
BBA vs. B.Com: Which Degree Will Skyrocket Your Career?
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, the demand for strategic thinking and advanced analytics has never been more critical. Addressing this need, UPES and KPMG in India have joined forces to create a pioneering partnership.
26/07/2024
19-year-old literary prodigy at UPES receives award from Uttarakhand CM
If you have the passion to work in an NGO, or want to pursue a career as a budget analyst, go for a degree in Public Administration
Is an MBA after Engineering a Good Career Option?
Top Reasons to Pursue a B.Com. (Hons) Degree
Scope and Career Opportunities After the BBA Aviation Management Degree
Please enter mobile number
It’s time to call in the experts, if you really believe in people power. Workshops, interactive sessions and activities on emotional, physical and mental well-being will reap rich dividends on both sides—happy employees and great results.
04/10/2024
It’s never easy to handle diverse employees and energies. When organizations listen to their people, connect with their aspirations, and understand who they are and what drives them, it’s easier to understand their energy levels. Everyone is aligned to handle things differently and have certain times of the day when they are most productive or have productivity peaks. Therefore, tasks must be assigned accordingly.
-- None --
MBA in Human Resource Management: Job Roles and Career Opportunities
It’s important for everyone to be mindful of the fact that prioritization of tasks is also a crucial differentiator when it comes to energy management. It’s important to detox, set healthy boundaries, respect others and most importantly, not get affected by challenges or unforeseen situations that may arise. They also need to identify and address energy-depleting behaviours and patterns that could harm productivity and the general work environment.
--None--
Embarking on a multicultural journey, UPES recently concluded its groundbreaking India Immersion Program at the enchanting campuses in Bidholi and Kandoli.
UPES Editorial Team
Know your people:
BYJUS, Sahara, Paytm, Star, Dream11. What is common between these companies? Well, if you guessed they all have sponsored the Indian Cricket Team, you are right!
I overcame my inhibitions and made the most of my university experience while I pursued MBA in Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) from 2019-2021 at UPES.
What is Business Negotiation? Skills, Strategies, and Negotiation
Students from UPES School of Business visit Scotland and London for Global Immersion
Please enter last name
What does the future of work hold as we step into the new year and beyond? In this article, we take a brief look at the key employee experience trends in 2024.
Graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) opens a world of possibilities. As a fresh graduate, deciding on your next step can be a bit daunting.
How the university taught me the power of networking
Business analysts play a pivotal role in bridging the gap between IT and business, using data-driven insights to improve decision-making and efficiency.
Explore the best BBA specializations that prepare you for success in tomorrow's job market. Learn about high-demand fields and how they shape your future career growth.
Decoding the economics of apologies
PGDM Vs. MBA: Which Suits You More?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Choosing the right undergraduate program can be a daunting decision for students aspiring to build successful careers in business or technology.
Guide to Essential Networking Tips for BBA Students
Email Address
Both MBA Marketing and MBA Finance are popular career options. Choosing between an MBA in Marketing and an MBA in Finance can be a tough decision, as both offer lucrative career opportunities and distinct advantages.
List of MBA Specialisations at UPES
The renewable energy sector is expanding at an exponential rate. According to a report published by International Energy Agency (IEA), renewable energy is forecast to grow by 1200GW in the next five years; that equals the total electricity capacity of the United States.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Top 10 Best Career Options After BBA Degree
How to facilitate energy management at the workplace?
Please select Course
23/08/2024
After all, energy is all about channeling. And channeling it right over time management is the key.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Skilled management is essential for every company to run smoothly and to keep everything in check.
20/11/2024
Related Articles
Career prospects after B.Com. in Banking and Insurance
14/02/2025
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Pursuing an MBA (Master of Business Administration) is a pivotal decision that can significantly impact your career trajectory
privacy policy
Indian women entrepreneurs have shattered the glass ceiling, emerging as powerful forces in the business world.
BBA stands for Bachelor of Business Administration, and it is one of the most popular and versatile courses that can prepare you for a successful career in the field of business and management.
Energy management means maximizing employees’ physical mental and emotional well-being by channeling it to complete goals and boosting productivity, as opposed to time management which is more process driven and focuses on the end result only, rather than the people behind it. It’s done by allowing regular breaks, which can be anything from a quick online game, a coffee or gym break or just a few minutes spent in the green spaces of the workplace to recharge oneself. This not only helps break a task down between various employees based on their abilities and talents, but also aids in collaboration, trust, understanding, adaptability and being open-minded. An emphatic win here also includes setting realistic deadlines for task completion which also eases mental pressure, to a great extent and thus paves the way easily for quality over quantity.
10/09/2024
18/02/2025
Last Name