Through this project, UPES will create awareness among the beneficiaries to change their behaviour for safe, healthy, and sustainable, hygienic menstrual practices and solutions. Around 1200 menstrual cups (each cup can be reused for ten years) will be distributed to the target population. Training sessions on the usage of menstrual cups will be conducted. It will be succeeded by on-field and telephonic follow-up and beneficiary support through BPO for 90 days (starting from the day of cup distribution).
UPES volunteers creating a Learnshala at a government school in Uttarakhand
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
UPES has funded an organisation called DivIn Pro, an impact and strategy-driven BPO managed by women and other marginalised sector professionals, to fill the critical gap of availability of sustainable material to manage menstruation. This project aims to eliminate period poverty, while contributing to sustainable development. The present proposal focuses on benefitting about 1200 women from UPES ground staff and UPES CSR supported and identified villages. The objective is to empower women with menstrual cups and fulfil the basic need for hygienic and safe protection during menstruation.
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Enhancing endurance during a conflict and resolving the same amicably
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Please enter email address
To make education fun and meaningful for children, UPES is building learning centres known as LearnShalas in four government primary schools: Kandoli, Misraspatti, Donga and Phulsani. These LearnShalas are lively learning spaces made with vibrant colours and engaging learning material. Through these centres, UPES hopes to nurture curious, creative, and critical thinking citizens of the future.
The CSR initiatives by UPES are an attempt to achieve greater economic, social, and gender equality and tackle the disproportionate barriers that hold the disadvantaged further behind. Ultimately, building a better world will require systemic changes. These initiatives are a step in that direction.
A book can turn someone’s life around; a garment can bring happiness to someone’s life. UPES celebrated a first-of-its-kind festival called DaanUtsav where the university’s staff and students donated vast amount of clothes, books, stationary, toys, and electronic items, which were distributed to the underprivileged in a nearby slum. UPES will also kickstart a student and staff volunteering program soon.
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
This is a Skill Development Program, which aims to uplift support staff such as security guards and housekeeping staff on campus. As per a survey conducted by the university, the primary requirement of the support staff was Computer skills and English speaking and writing skills. The sessions under the training framework will, therefore, focus on:
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Building learning centres at government schools, beating period poverty by distributing menstrual cups, and nurturing support staff through a skill development program, are some of the university’s upcoming CSR initiatives
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Further, UPES will conduct learning camps, especially in Math and Science, through these learning centres. One learning centre at Upper Kandoli village is ready, while others are in the pipeline.
This program is intended for all teachers, middle school students, homemakers or anyone from nearby villages to learn how to use computers and the internet for various day-to-day functions like accessing information.
Therefore, it becomes the duty of institutions to work towards building a more equitable and sustainable world as envisioned in the internationally-accepted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
Improving digital literacy through DigitalDhaam
By
the
Please Select Course Type
The direct beneficiaries will include:
A subscriber email already exists.
Published 22/02/2022
Conveying difficult messages to the audience
Need for effective communication
Cup dominant communities produce less menstrual waste and therefore, the environment of these communities is benefited indirectly.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
Supporting staff through UPES Skills Academy
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources. The pandemic has further aggravated these deep-seated disparities among the most vulnerable sections of society.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
Beating period poverty together
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
UPES student volunteers will engage children in a variety of learning activities through LearnShalas. They will make the classroom experience interesting and exciting using relevant content and storytelling methods while encouraging a culture of asking questions. The goal is to make learning a joyful experience for the school community, particularly in a language they understand.
Learning the etiquettes to greet staff and visitors
Frontline peripheral health workers such as ASHA workers and Auxiliary Nursing & Midwifery/Anganwadi workers will volunteer for the project in their respective areas.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Ground staff of UPES and women from identified villages, including Bakarna, Kharakhet, Pulsani, Dhaulas and other menstruators (trans men/non-binary individuals), belonging to underprivileged and vulnerable sections of the society.
Families of beneficiaries will benefit as they would be saving money spent on pads each month.
Understanding non-verbal communication
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
UPES firmly believes that every member of the organisation should have pathways to do better in life. The Skills Academy is focused on working with the support staff to build their capacities and help them for better roles at UPES and elsewhere.
UPES, the ‘University of Tomorrow’, has always stood at the forefront of giving back to society, especially to the state of Uttarakhand. Continuing to fulfil its responsibility, the university, with a renewed focus, has added a series of initiatives to its extensive list of Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR). The CSR work will encompass issues such as education, health, safety and women empowerment.
Government primary schools around UPES have poor infrastructure, which has implications on children’s education. It often leads to abysmal learning outcomes.
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
Nurturing future leaders through learning centres at schools
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Spreading the joy of giving with DaanUtsav
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name
The initial batch will comprise 20 trainees. Eventually, the program will be extended to community members from the nearby villages as well. The training will help the support staff to develop a better understanding of their roles and responsibilities, improve their communications skills and personality, understand the importance of teamwork, and learn to write answer applications, emails, messages, and other written communication.