where we provide support and guidance to individuals facing personal challenges.
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
aims at creating user-friendly interfaces and experiences.
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
Clinical Psychology
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Social Services and Community
Health and Well-Being
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
focuses on enhancing employee well-being and productivity in workplaces.
The program emphasises assessment diversity and provides opportunities for internships and research projects. The highlights of this program include a student-centered learning environment using a transdisciplinary approach, training in experiment design, data analysis and exposure to training by global experts and world-renowned researchers.
Some people crave social interaction, while others feel drained out by it. This difference can be explained by personality traits like introversion and extroversion. Similarly, our brains tend to group information into smaller, more manageable units, which helps in remembering information. The colour red, often associated with urgency or danger, is frequently used by Apps to grab our attention for missed notifications. Additionally, conforming to the opinions or behaviours of others in a group is an example of social influence that can lead to decisions we wouldn’t make on our own.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
25/07/2024
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Real-world applications of the B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour Program
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
aims at improving teaching and learning experiences, assessing student needs, and providing behavioural interventions in educational settings.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
Counselling and Therapy
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
These examples illustrate the diverse career paths available to psychology graduates, highlighting the versatility and applicability of a psychology degree in addressing real-world challenges.
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
aims at promoting overall well-being at healthcare institutions and public health organisations as well as creates wellness programs to develop interventions encouraging healthy lifestyles.
School education
By
From learning and memory processes to social interactions, psychology offers insights into the fascinating workings of the human mind. The B.Sc. (Hons.) Psychology and Behaviour program at UPES School of Liberal Studies offers a comprehensive understanding of mental processes and human behaviour through a multidisciplinary approach. With a focus on research-led teaching, students explore various research methodologies and techniques used in psychological research, gaining practical experience in a state-of-the-art psychology lab. They engage in real-world applications, contribute to mental health awareness initiatives, and collaborate across allied fields.
the
09/01/2025
which focuses on understanding consumer behavior, conducting surveys, and interpreting data to help businesses understand customer preferences and develop effective marketing strategies.
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
Outreach
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
Ouroz Khan
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
where we assess, diagnose, and treat mental health disorders.
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
focused on addressing social issues and supporting marginalised populations.
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
A degree in B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour prepares us for diverse career opportunities, ranging from:
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
The writer is Ouroz Khan, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Liberal Studies
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
Published 22/03/2024
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
provide a ground for exploring higher studies and pursuing research to unfold the intricacies of various psychological phenomenon.
Organisational Behaviour
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
Market Research and Consumer Behaviour
Have you ever wondered why some people love spending time with friends while others feel shy talking to strangers? Why is it easier to remember a phone number with hyphens (555-1234) than without (5551234)? Or why do Apps use red colour for missed notifications? Or have you found yourself agreeing to an answer in class because everyone else did, even if you weren’t sure if it was right? These examples illustrate how psychological principles influence our daily lives. Psychology, as the scientific study of mind and behaviour, provides answers to such questions.
Research and Academia
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
User Experience (UX) Design
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024