They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Global Exposure
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
Blog
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
View less
Rising temperatures and growing inequalities have intensified the need for greater corporate responsibility.
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
+91
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Academic Excellence
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Explore programs, placements, global opportunities, and campus life at the 'University of Tomorrow'.
Placements
Executive Education Programs by UPES to Power ESG Leaders of Tomorrow
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Exams
Please enter first name
Email Address
Showing items
Please enter mobile number
Mobile Number
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
11/09/2024
-- None --
Submit
Suryansh Gaur
23/08/2024
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
of UPES.
Subscribe
UPES Star
Course Type
--None--
Select Course
Please select Course
School of Academic Excellence
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Please enter email address
the
Life at Campus
UPES Editorial Team
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Please Select Course Type
Latest Articles
Download the Brochure
Featured Posts
27/08/2024
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
EduSpeak
Visit the UPES Program Blogs
privacy policy
View all
*
A subscriber email already exists.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Entrepreneurship
Last Name