Diana George
in more ways than just knowing the right flower to give. It also opens up the mind to understand how a particular community perceives your business, what cultural and social values they associate it with, and what ethics they follow while conducting business. Attaining such granular knowledge about any region is relatively easy, thanks to the internet. But experiencing the small details first-hand is what makes your strategy better than your competitors. And keeps you in business!
+91
allows students to visit reputed international universities and enroll in one of the two streams: Global Leadership and Design and Innovation. In the new normal, where students and professionals alike are starting to embrace working from home, having a comprehensive knowledge of the global business at your fingertips puts you miles ahead of your competition. At UPES, our vision is to impart world-class education and cultivate the next generation of leaders equipped with a global outlook.
First Name
Working or studying in a new country also opens the door for a global career. One assesses you on your ability to gel up with a new set of people, and having the credentials and experience of
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Course Type
Please enter email address
Hues of Holi @UPES
*
Here’s a rundown of three main reasons why, in this globalized economy, having international exposure is akin to having a wish-granting elixir.
Dehradun is synonymous to education.
Relationships that transcend boundaries
Trending Post
Networking is one of the first vital lessons students are taught. All kinds of businesses, academic collaborations, and research coordination happens as a result of a strong network. People from different regions have different perspectives to offer. For businesses, it’s a new market, and for academic institutions, it’s a new pedagogy, but for both, it’s an opportunity to expand and grow.
The most significant advantage of studying internationally is learning new life skills
Learning new rules in a new land
UPES students organised various events to mark the occasion of World Theatre Day
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
the Global Immersion Program
By
the
Why gaining international exposure is more crucial than ever
Please Select Course Type
5 reasons why theatre is the perfect medium for personality development
Technology, with each passing day, is making the world more connected than ever. Globalization has permeated our daily lives – we eat at an American burger chain, watch German origin shows, engage with multi-cultural content on social media, and get a pleasant surprise seeing Indian customs being followed worldwide (Namaste is poised to become the preferred greeting in the new normal). New businesses are entering our market and connecting with us. In such a scenario, the need to offer students international exposure is paramount.
A subscriber email already exists.
An NGO displaying products made by the underprivileged at the UPES fair
Imagine you are pitching to a Japanese client. You want to impress them and follow business ethics, so you decide to greet them with lilies or white carnations. Before you start painting an image of working in Tokyo, you should know the client has already rejected your (brilliant) pitch. Why? In Japanese culture, white flowers and lilies are offered during a funeral and are strictly avoided during business meetings.
Why Dehradun attracts students from all over the world
Global exposure, in the simplest of terms, is opening our minds to new cultures. In the context of academics, it means learning and understanding the conduct of business and/or education in a different country. The pedagogies and methodologies differ, the anticipation from a non-native is different, the rules of social behavior change, and the general perception towards life varies. When one combines such and more new layers to an ongoing process, it results in a mix of outcomes, which, more often than not, is not the desired result. To solve such a hassle is tricky. And few are skilled enough to understand the complexity and chart a route out of the confusion effectively. These few are professionals who have extensive global exposure. And the ones who go on to lead large projects and organizations.
7 Best Cafes in Dehradun to Enjoy a Meal With your Bestie after Classes
Please enter mobile number
UPES offers ample opportunities for students to experience and develop a global outlook. The Department of International Affairs at UPES has meticulously chalked out avenues through which students get international exposure
UPES offers ample opportunities for students to experience and develop a global outlook. The Department of International Affairs at UPES has meticulously chalked out avenues through which students get international exposure. Student and Faculty Exchange Program and Internships offer a chance to attend another university and exchange knowledge and skills. Similarly,
-- None --
--None--
Dehradun is India’s Education Hub for All the Right Reasons
By a Correspondent
Fortunate are those who enjoy their college life! A potpourri of experiences – from events to academics – fill up the lives of students on campus. UPES alumni talk about the memories of their good old days at the university
UPES Editorial Team
Published 21/07/2020
Please enter last name
Global exposure brings unique life skills
Ekta Kashyap
The most significant advantage of studying internationally is learning new life skills. A new place requires a new way of living – cooking on your own, learning to communicate your message in a new language, understanding new business ethics – and this new learning goes a long way in one’s professional life as well. As mentioned earlier, knowing what a particular culture likes and dislikes is crucial in creating a business strategy and conquering a new market.
These Places In Dehradun Should Be On Your Bucket List
A beautiful and serene place, Dehradun is known for its scenic, lush green and popular hill stations in Uttarakhand.
Cross-cultural knowledge helps a student
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Please select Course
Dehradun is a popular city in Uttarakhand. The city is well-known for its schooling, weather and environment.
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
studying in a different country adds weight to your CV
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
School of Business
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Students celebrating Holi on campus after two years
privacy policy
International exposure offers students the chance to cultivate new relations with people from different countries and offer to build a network of new perspectives and business opportunities. Today, when countries are rapidly shifting focus on domestic production and collaborating with other nations for greater efficiency, having a strong network of professionals from different regions would give you and your business a tremendous edge.
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
The city has a rich history, old-world charm, and stunning natural landscapes, in perfect harmony with the efficiency and convenience of urban infrastructure. Dehradun is not only the most forested capitals among the Indian states, but it is also home to several reputed institutions of higher learning
Last Name