5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
. The annual event is immensely popular within the legal fraternity and witnesses huge participation from all over the country. Keeping up with the tradition, this year, too, the team is gearing up for their first-ever online NCCC in November 2020. The theme of the competition would cover a wide range of laws such as
Course Type
Also read: Life of a law student: Things you should know
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Sukanya Sharma, Student Convener,  CCA
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Lovepreet Singh and Hrishikesh Bedi winners, National Client Counselling Competition (NCCC) at MKES College of Law
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
, says, “I have been a part of CCC since my first year in 2016, when I participated as a client for the 5th NCCC. The experience ignited me to take up the baton, and here I am leading the team under the able mentorship of our Dean, Dr. Vijay Kumar Singh, and Professors, Dr. Anju Pandey and Mr. Himanshu Dhandaria.”
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
12/08/2024
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Ananya Gupta and Siddheswari Ranawat winners , 9th RCL National Client Counselling Competition, 2019
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
“Client counselling harbours the art of client advocacy, which happens to be the first step of being a lawyer.  One gets to learn life-skills from CCC, which are not just limited to operate within the spectrum of the legal world, but even beyond that,” she concludes.
Client counselling is a coveted skill that every law student should master. What sets apart a great lawyer from a good one is their capability to extract the right information from the client and put across their ideas concisely and confidently. The journey of developing a strong attorney-client rapport is one that takes years of practice. While dealing with a client, there may be multiple challenges like difficulty in establishing trust, not getting the right questions for obtaining the relevant information the client is withholding etc. Client Counselling course, offered as a part of the law curriculum, prepares students to overcome these challenges and make their mark as a legal expert.
Published 27/10/2020
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
The Client Counselling Association (CCA),
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Contract Law, Labour Law, Cyber Laws, Constitutional Law, Arbitration Law, Transfer of Property Law, and Company Act.
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions. Client Counselling Competitions help students in perfecting their interviewing, counselling, and communication skills, essential to make their mark as a lawyer.
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
The objective behind conducting this competition is to let law aspirants test their skills as counsels in terms of handling clients, responding to critical situations, maintaining patience and perseverance, identification as well as approaches to the legal issues faced by the clients. While dealing with the clients, the counsels will be able to self-assess themselves, as to how they need to work on their skills and the judges will evaluate them on their body language, conduct and domain knowledge.
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
Last Name
“In Client Counselling sessions, lawyers are expected to understand the issues of the client and provide them with necessary and accessible solutions,” says
The CCC simulates a law office consultation wherein law students act as attorneys and handle client matters. The participants conduct an initial interview with a person playing the role of the client. They then address the client’s legal as well as non-legal needs. Participants are supposed to explain various aspects of the attorney-client relationship, determine client goals, and consider applicable law and options that may be available to the client.
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Lovepreet Singh, LL.B. student, UPES School of Law
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
, a popular event organised in law schools promotes greater knowledge and interest among law students in the preventative law and counselling functions of law practice. It also develops interviewing, planning, and analytical skills.
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
Client Counselling Competition (CCC)
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Preeti Aneja
The writer is Preeti Aneja, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Law
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
UPES School of Law, has been organising NCCC since 2014
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Speaking about the significance of counselling skills for students,
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Please select Course
and winner, National Client Counselling Competition (NCCC) at MKES College of Law, says, “I counted upon my ability to listen to what the client was saying and gently nudged him to extract the required information. This experience was a real test of my patience and made me realise how important it is for every law student to know about the real-life application of the law.”
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
Elucidating about her winning strategy, she shares, “It’s about asking questions at the right time, within the right time frame and providing solutions. In case of a competition, having alternate solutions always help, while trying to connect with the client on a basic human level and providing them comfort by making them feel that they are at the right place. At times, our client might not be innocent and as lawyers, we ought to know about it by making them comfortable in the space where they reveal the truth so that the best possible solutions can be suggested. It is all about what the client wants during that session. If you figure that out, the road ahead gets easier.”
14/08/2024
Client Counselling Competitions
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
30/08/2024
Ananya Gupta, alumna, UPES, School of Law, winner, RCL, NCC 2019.
upes school of law
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022