+91
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
Another student Pratishtha Nautiyal says, “A poster a day challenge made us put on our thinking hat and come up with unique ideas yet similar to our perspective. I pushed through my boundaries to learn immensely, where I can now research and create a poster on my own, using the right fonts and colours to bring out an effective design in establishing a strong image and a relevant message.”
First Name
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
The objective of posters was to convey a certain message for the target audience. Therefore, this project was also based on mental processes involving ideating, analysing, and visually interpreting the problems. These processes were rapid, unconscious, and non-verbal.
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
The Poster Design Project went on for almost six weeks. Some of the themes that the students focussed on were cyberbullying and trolling, with minimal graphics, a good headline and social messages. The idea was to explore as many creative flairs as possible in a limited period of time. The project focused primarily on style than content.
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
“It was challenging and exhausting as we had to think out of the box and were given the complete freedom to experiment. We had to come up with a new idea each day. A wide range of references and works of good designers helped me a lot. The fact that I got to learn many things, explore and implement them in such a short time was remarkable,” says Abhishek Kumar, student, graphic design.
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
The writer is Soumitra Bhattacharya, Professor, UPES School of Design
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
Behind every powerful, thought-provoking artwork, lies the rigorous task of putting the best ideas on canvas, and exploring a variety of styles with a thorough understanding and application of the design process. Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently.
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
Ayush Srivastav, another second-year graphic design student says, “I got a chance to come out of the monotony of day-to-day life. I went on a creative journey of my own while still learning about the style that was assigned for the day.”
05/08/2024
Students settled on a specific theme each day such as Minimal Mondays, Typographic Tuesdays, Vintage Wednesdays and so on. They came up with a group of posters representing that particular style. What followed was an expansive range of designs breathing fresh colours, typography, and stunning visual ideas. The energy was commendable with a wide exploration of styles and techniques with a significant message.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
“The motive behind this activity was to expose us to the concept of poster design, and without a doubt it was successful. We were required to step out of our comfort zones and experiment with something new every day. What added to the success was the detailed feedback we gave during lectures. We gave our suggestions about each other’s work, thus getting into a habit of identifying the smallest of details and learning how to put forward critical and more professional feedback,” says Saloni Dugar, a second-year graphic design student.
Soumitra Bhattacharya
privacy policy
Published 20/10/2020
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name