Kavya Jayaprakash at the BESIGN campus
school of design
“I went through the interview process and received confirmation about my internship which starts in March. It will be a paid internship of 1600 Euros per month. I am so looking forward to going back to France,” says an elated Kavya.
+91
12/09/2024
Mentored by experts from IBM and IKEA, a project by UPES design students has won several awards, including the ‘The CII Young Designer Award 2022’, the D’source DIC-BHU Award hosted by IIT Bombay, and an honourable mention at the Student Service Design Challenge 2022, announced at Barcelona Design Week.
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Unlocking the Potential of a Bachelor of Design Education
Designing a Future Career: Job Prospects Post M.Des. Graduation
While the job of a User Experience (UX) designer is to make the product look extremely attractive by adding eye-catching features, the real advantage of a good User Interface (UI) is visualisation
In an ever-shifting world, the sphere of design emerges as a testament to the boundless creativity and resourcefulness of humanity.
21/11/2024
Course Type
Kavya has fond memories of her days spent in France as she got to engage with a diverse community on campus, comprising students and faculty from various corners of the world. “There used to be many enlightening discussions about the customs and traditions of each other’s nations. It was an amazing experience, despite the fact that I missed my friends and the UPES campus terribly during those five months abroad,” she recalls with a smile.
Please enter email address
‘One poster every day’ for UPES School of Design students
A career in design is bound to be imbued with creativity, innovation, challenges, and free-flowing imagination. Any student pursuing a Bachelor of Design (B.Des) will tell you how varied and diverse this field is!
01/10/2024
UPES School of Design student, Kavya Jayaprakash, who was on a semester exchange program to France, ended up securing a four-and-a-half-month-long paid internship with Accenture there
25/07/2024
*
In the last two decades, some of the greatest human innovations have manifested from imagination to reality, owing to Product Design.
Awards galore for UPES design project
The rise of sustainable fashion
Designing the Future: Trends and Strategies in Product Design
Bachelor’s mini washing machine prototype is a compact and innovative laundry solution designed to cater to the needs of individuals living in small spaces, such as bachelors or singletons, students and residents of studio apartments.
Trending Post
On a semester exchange program to France, student lands internship with Accenture
While this project was underway, Kavya applied for an internship at Accenture. She received unconditional encouragement and support from both BESIGN and UPES to nail the interview.
Please enter first name
Designing a poster can be an extremely challenging and rewarding experience at the same time. UPES second-year graphic design students witnessed one such experience recently
Mobile Number
Tags
Design is a world where creativity and innovation walk hand-in-hand and hold limitless opportunities.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Unleashing Creativity: Exploring the Intersection of Design and Innovation
Things You Will Learn In M.Des. Communication Design Course
By
the
Students who aspire to become fashion stylists can begin their journey by enrolling in a design program at UPES.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
26/09/2024
As a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) student, you’re likely immersed in a world of creativity, innovation, and practical design skills. But how do you bridge the gap between the classroom and the professional world? The answer lies in internships
Trends Shaping Modern Mobility Solutions
For the creatively inclined, a Graphics and Communication Design course is an ideal career choice. If you operate in a digital field, you can work from anywhere in the world
Are you passionate about visual storytelling and eager to make your mark in the world of design? An M.Des. in Communication Design might be just what you're looking for!
26/07/2024
Shailja Katyal Verma
Careers you can pursue with a degree in UI, UX Design
BESIGN is a higher education institution for design aspirants, situated in the picturesque locales of Côte d’Azur, south of France. Designers, desirous of addressing some of the most pressing issues confronting the planet, converge here to dwell on sustainable design solutions for the future. While the school offers courses in a variety of disciplines, including urban design, architecture, fashion, and product design, it also trains students in various aspects of film-making, life-centered design and climate change, among other things. Kavya and her classmates also had the opportunity to visit L’Institut Supérieur de l’Environnement (ISE) in Paris for a city development project.
Published 23/02/2023
Please enter mobile number
Flex your creative muscles with a course in Graphics and Communication Design
The Journey of a Product Designer: From Inspiration to Creation
Where are we headed? This burning question is cropping up everywhere with the astounding speed of technological innovation as lives, careers, industry and even the planet are being impacted.
What’s Life as a B.Des Student?
-- None --
Are you passionate about design and considering a Bachelor of Design (B.Des.) degree? Choosing the right course can be overwhelming, but don't worry! We've got you covered with this comprehensive guide to help you make an informed decision.
Kavya returned to India from her exchange program on February 15, but got busy with her preparations for the internship soon after. “Life is pretty hectic at the moment. I am now in my final semester and I am aware that I also have to complete my graduation project with my mentor on time,” she says.
--None--
How B.Des. Grads Are Revolutionizing the Gaming Industry
There are several aspects and nuances of a successful product design, Designers need to keep in mind some important factors while conceptualising a product
UPES Editorial Team
How to become a fashion stylist
B.Des. Specializations: What are your options?
Please enter last name
However, her favourite part of the exchange program was a partnership project about future of human connections and mobility. The students had to work on a four-month-long project with one of the five leading organisations – Accenture, Toyota, Sugar, MSA France and SGH2 Energy. Everyone, from first-year to Master’s degree students, worked together on the project. Once a month, the students would meet with the corporate clients for feedback. At the end of the project, they presented their work at Toyota. “It was an incredible experience for all of us as we got to state our individual contribution to the project. We also learnt that teamwork and collaboration can produce remarkable results and solve some of the biggest real-world challenges,” gushes Kavya.
05/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Elevate Your Design Career with an M. Des. Degree
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Sustainability is a growing concern in modern mobility. Consumers and governments are demanding eco-friendly transportation options to reduce environmental impact.
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
If you are passionate about design and want to pursue a career in this exciting and rewarding field, then you might want to consider doing a Master of Design (M.Des.) degree.
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
5 characteristics of a good product design
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
In the dynamic realm of the gaming industry, the fusion of creativity and technical expertise has become the catalyst for innovation.
Factors to Consider While Choosing a B.Des. Course
Her alma mater is extremely proud of her for making purposeful strides in her career. So are her parents who feel that this exposure will add immensely to her knowledge and skills as a design professional.
privacy policy
She hails it as a significant milestone in her academic journey, notwithstanding the initial apprehension about staying in a foreign country, far away from her family. Kavya Jayaprakash, final-year student of UPES School of Design, made the best of her five-month semester exchange program to BESIGN – The Sustainable Design School, France, by managing to secure an internship opportunity with Accenture, one of the most prestigious and largest firms in the consulting industry.
B.Des. Internships: How to Find and Secure Them?
Sustainable fashion has become a movement to reduce textile waste and environmental exploitation.
Last Name