A B. Pharm. course can also help you earn a lucrative salary and benefits, depending on your qualification, experience, and employer. However, this can vary widely depending on the location, sector, and role. Along with your monetary compensation, you can also enjoy various benefits, such as medical insurance, pension, bonus, etc., as a pharmacist or a pharmacy professional.
Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
5. Continuous Learning and Growth
+91
2. Diverse Career Options
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
1. High Demand and Scope
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
A B. Pharm. course can also provide you with continuous learning and growth opportunities. You can keep yourself updated and informed about the latest developments and innovations in the field of drugs and medicines, such as new molecules, formulations, delivery systems, etc. You can also enhance your skills and knowledge by pursuing higher education or by obtaining certifications, such as Certified Pharmacy Technician (CPhT), Certified Geriatric Pharmacist (CGP), or Board-Certified Pharmacotherapy Specialist (BCPS).
Conclusion
Published 01/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
A B. Pharm. course can also stimulate your creativity and innovation, as you can use your creativity and innovation to create or improve various drugs and medicines. You can also use your creativity and innovation to solve various problems or challenges in the field of pharmacy, such as by finding new ways to enhance the quality, safety, or efficacy of drugs, or by finding new methods to optimize the pharmacy practice or process.
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
In this blog, we have shared the 10 reasons of pursuing a bachelor’s in pharmacy. The list of advantages will help you in making a wise decision.
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
4. Flexible and Convenient
8. Creativity and Innovation
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
A B. Pharm. course is a great choice for anyone who wants to pursue a career in the field of pharmacy and healthcare. It can offer you various benefits and advantages, If you're looking for a career that combines science, service, and societal impact, a B. Pharm. course might be the perfect prescription for your future success. So, apply now and join the world of pharmaceutical.
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely. Even though the pandemic struck multiple industries in worst way possible but has proven to bring boom to other industries. One of those industries is pharmaceutical industry.
Please Select Course Type
A B. Pharm. course can also help you gain respect and recognition, as you can become a part of the prestigious and noble profession of pharmacy. You can earn the respect and recognition of your patients, colleagues, and employers, as you can provide them with valuable and reliable services and solutions. You can also earn the respect and recognition of the society, as you can make a positive and lasting impact on the health and welfare of the people.
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
3. Lucrative Salary and Benefits
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
B. Pharm. or Bachelor of Pharmacy is a four-year undergraduate degree course that covers the study of drugs, their composition, effects, and uses. It also covers the aspects of pharmacy practice, such as pharmacology, pharmaceutics, pharmacognosy, A B. Pharm. course can prepare you for a rewarding and fulfilling career as a pharmacist or a related professional.
6. Social Service and Satisfaction
A B. Pharm. course can also enable you to perform social service and achieve satisfaction, as you can contribute to the health and well-being of the society. You can help people by providing them with safe and effective medicines, by preventing and resolving drug-related problems, and by promoting healthy lifestyles and habits. You can also help the society by participating in various health campaigns, awareness programs, and outreach activities.
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
A B. Pharm. course can equip you with the skills and knowledge to pursue a variety of career options in the pharmacy and healthcare sector. You can work as a pharmacist, clinical pharmacist, research pharmacist, regulatory pharmacist, hospital pharmacist, depending on your interest and preference.
04/10/2024
What is Bachelor of Pharmacy?
-- None --
9. Networking and Collaboration
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
Benefits of Pursuing B. Pharm. Course
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
7. Respect and Recognition
National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency, the pharmaceutical industry in India is expected to reach $65 Bn by 2024 and to $130 Bn by 2030.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
A B. Pharm. course can also foster your personal and professional development, as you can acquire and improve various skills and qualities that can benefit you in your life and career. You can develop and improve your technical skills, soft skills, communication and interpersonal skills.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
A B. Pharm. course can also facilitate your networking and collaboration, as you can connect and communicate with various people and organizations in the field of pharmacy and healthcare. You can network and collaborate with other pharmacists and pharmacy professionals, and other healthcare professionals, such as doctors, nurses, dentists, etc.
A B. Pharm. course can also offer you flexibility and convenience in terms of your work schedule, location, and environment. You can choose to work full-time, part-time, or freelance or in different settings, such as hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, etc., or be it different locations, such as urban, rural, or remote areas, depending on your opportunity and mobility.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
The demand and scope for pharmacists and pharmacy professionals are also increasing. As per
privacy policy
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Thus, pursuing a B. Pharm. course can open up a lot of opportunities and possibilities for you in the domestic and global markets.
10. Personal and Professional Development
Last Name