+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
India is a country where the majority of the population lives in villages. Generating incomes at the village level is one of the major requirements. This can be done by setting up value-added industries in the villages. The world is moving toward natural products. However, the extraction of these products is a major challenge. A chemical engineer can focus on developing a cost-effective sustainable process to process the agricultural output and subsequently increase the incomes of farmers.
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
The principles of chemical engineering can be applied to find sustainable solutions for environmental problems. The classical topic in chemical engineering such as mass transfer enables a chemical engineer to design the process for removal of pollutants from a gaseous or aquatic stream. Another area of chemical engineering is to develop cost-effective sustainable processes for the extraction of valuable compounds from agricultural products.
01/10/2024
12/08/2024
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels? This shifts the role of chemical engineers towards cleaner and renewable energy sources. Biomass to energy conversion is gaining importance as the feedstock is renewable, and therefore, a sustainable solution to the energy needs for the development of our nation. Efficient conversion technologies need to be developed to compete with fossil fuels. Another fuel that has the potential to solve the energy problem is hydrogen. Handling and storage of hydrogen is one major challenge that requires the efforts of chemical engineering to realise the potential.
One of the major applications of chemical engineering is to separate a mixture into its component for different applications. We all know the crisis we faced during the pandemic due to the scarcity of oxygen.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
Tags
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
, which helps him/her to design the process.
26/07/2024
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
The writer is Dr Rahul Kumar,  Assistant Professor, Chemical Engineering Department, UPES School of Advanced Engineering
Published 09/06/2021
-- None --
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Aiding farmers to increase their income
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
career paths for chemical engineers
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Pharmaceutical industries are energy-intensive and the development of energy-efficient processes is the major challenge. In the material balance of the pharmaceutical industry, 70-80% are organic solvents, which are used to process the active pharmaceutical ingredients (API). Chemical engineers are leading to design the process that will have less amount of solvent such as based upon supercritical fluids. At the same time, particle size reduction of pharmaceutical compounds to enhance the dissolution rate and aqueous solubility are done in various milling unit operations, which are highly energy inefficient. Energy-efficient technique such as liquid-antisolvent process is the alternative to the milling process.
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
A chemical engineer learns the basics of these operations
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence
Dr. Rahul Kumar
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Separating mixtures for various uses
Chemical engineering is a fascinating discipline encompassing multidisciplinary principles. This enables chemical engineers to explore opportunities in diverse fields ranging from the food and pharmaceutical industry to rural development. One such opportunity presented itself recently when the Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi announced an ambitious target of blending 20% ethanol in gasoline by 2025. He was speaking at the release of ethanol blending road map 2020-25 on the occasion of World Environment Day.
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
*
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
chemical engineer
Development of nation
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
UPES School of Engineering aim to do that and more
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
In summary, a chemical engineer can play a significant role in the sustainable development of the nation. The new opportunities for a chemical engineer are emerging at an unprecedented level in the present scenario. The need of the hour is to train aspiring chemical engineers in a robust manner so they become a part of this development journey and serve society. The undergraduate, post-graduate, and doctoral programs under
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
upes school of engineering
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
Finding sustainable solutions to environmental concerns
privacy policy
Designing processes in Pharmaceutical Research
To achieve this target, India needs to focus on grain-based distilleries. The challenges and opportunities exist for chemical engineers to develop the process for cost-efficient production from these distilleries. Chemical engineers are already working in many areas such as alternative energy, drug delivery, environmental problems, and rural development to make life better with sustainable solutions.
18/02/2025
One of the emerging roles of a chemical engineer is in the field of pharmaceutical research. The principles of chemical engineering such as heat and mass balance, thermodynamics, chemical reactor design have several applications in the pharmaceutical industry.
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?