Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Executive Education Programs by UPES to Power ESG Leaders of Tomorrow
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Suryansh Gaur
Course Type
The growing demand for impact leadership has highlighted the need for versatile leaders skilled in areas such as Impact Finance, Development Economics, Corporate Governance, Impact Entrepreneurship, and Behavioural Science, especially with a focus on underserved communities. However, a significant skill gap exists; according to the Closing the Sustainability Skills Gap Report (2022) by Microsoft, nearly 60% of sustainability professionals lack formal education in these critical areas. Current training models are insufficient to meet evolving industry needs, leading to a shortage of specialised research, content, and education for these roles.
Please enter email address
How UPES is Shaping Tomorrow’s Leaders
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team.
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
Rising temperatures and growing inequalities have intensified the need for greater corporate responsibility. To address these environmental and social issues, companies are shifting from managing traditional risks to creating positive societal and environmental impacts by focusing on designing, building, scaling, and managing impactful initiatives. This shift, known as Impact Capitalism or Capitalism 2.0, requires new leadership roles like Chief Impact Officers (CIOs), Chief Sustainability Officers (CSOs), and Heads of ESG, who integrate impact into an organisation’s core values while balancing the triple bottom line — People, Planet, and Profit.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
Recognising the need to bridge this gap, UPES, in collaboration with Aspire Circle, has established the RISE Center (Research on Impact, Sustainability, and ESG), set to be inaugurated on September 21, 2024. This Center aims to equip leaders with the knowledge and skills necessary to drive positive change across communities and organisations. By advancing research and learning in sustainability and ESG, the RISE Center is committed to promoting a future where economic growth is aligned with environmental stewardship. It will focus on finding innovative solutions to challenges like climate change, carbon neutrality, and sustainable development, while fostering a deeper understanding of sustainability practices that guide organisations toward Net Zero, circular economies, and balanced risk management.
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Please enter first name
As part of its initiatives, The RISE Center, in partnership with Mahindra University and Aspire Circle, will launch the ESG, Sustainability, and Impact Specialist Program (ISP) to train future Chief Impact Officers. This executive education program equips mid to senior-level professionals with the skills needed to lead the impact economy in sectors like corporations, banks, and non-profits. The ISP, developed over four years of research, features 20 thematic sessions, 50+ caselets, and 4 global and Indian case studies. The four-day, 32-hour program will be held in two parts: at UPES in Dehradun (September 19-21, 2024) and Mahindra University in Hyderabad (November 28-30, 2024), with participants receiving a joint certificate upon completion.
Mobile Number
According to a 2023 report by the World Economic Forum (WEF), 44% of businesses globally report a lack of skilled professionals who understand sustainability challenges and opportunities, indicating a growing gap in impact-oriented skills. A study by LinkedIn in 2024 highlighted that roles in sustainability and impact have seen a 74% increase in job postings over the past five years, while the availability of candidates with the requisite skills has only increased by 16%. This stark contrast underscores the urgent need for educational programs to pivot towards equipping students with the necessary skills to fill these roles.
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Published 30/08/2024
The push towards equipping future leaders with the skills necessary for sustainable and impactful leadership is just beginning.  As organisations increasingly prioritise sustainability and ESG, educational institutions worldwide are likely to continue evolving, offering innovative programs that prepare students to not only understand the complexities of global challenges but also to lead the charge in addressing them.
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
--None--
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Need for Impact Leadership
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
The ISP program targets professionals aged 35 to 60 in ESG, risk, sustainability, impact roles, banking, finance, investment, CSR, and policy development, or those transitioning into the impact sector. It offers a unique opportunity to advance careers, expand networks, and drive sustainable change. Focusing on practical skills and real-world case studies, the program addresses gaps in traditional education by providing sustained, targeted learning outcomes, equipping participants to lead their organisations in an era where impact is key to success.
Email Address
The Future of Impact Leadership Education
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name