+91
The National Education Policy 2020 emphasises research and innovation, stressing the need for financial support for academic research.
02/01/2025
First Name
Emerging jobs for aerospace engineering graduates
The Role of Sustainable Engineering in Combating Environmental Challenges
The Rise of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Their Impact on the Automotive Industry
In today’s age of energy crisis, a career in sustainable and renewable engineering is a lucrative choice. Energy engineering graduates can explore opportunities to work as solar energy system engineers, project managers, wind farm designers, and more.
Study Electric Vehicle Technology for a career boost
Course Type
Online vs. On-Campus B.Tech Programs: Which Is Right for You?
The industrial tour of the Aerospace & Avionics Engineering students to Hyderabad from April 11 to 15 was an incredible experience for all students
Develop a good understanding of the research methods in psychology, and knowledge of statistics and data analysis, providing learners with the necessary tools for scientific inquiry.
Published 13/02/2024
Please enter email address
How 5G technology will impact and transform the world
Dr. C. P. Ramanarayanan, Vice-Chancellor of Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) under Ministry of Defence, unravels the capabilities of Rafale jets, explains the ‘extremes of engineering’, and reasons why the days of one country winning over another in a full-fledged war are over.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
B.E. vs. B.Tech: Which Is Right for You?
27/08/2024
Mechatronics engineering presents a dynamic and promising career path for individuals intrigued by the convergence of mechanical, computer, and electronic systems.
Krishna Singh of UPES School of Engineering is making heads turn with his creativity, innovative streak and business acumen
EV Sales in India have seen a rise of a massive 42%! The rise of electric cars (EVs) is causing a revolution in the automotive sector. EVs, which were formerly a niche market, are now leading the way in transportation and spurring innovation.
The $500 reward was quite spectacular, but the journey leading up to it even more so.
An undergraduate degree in Psychology and Behaviour equips students with a versatile skill set applicable across a broad range of professions. Graduates have the opportunity to make a positive impact on individuals and society by applying psychological principles to real-world situations. The program serves as a stepping stone for further education and career advancement, with many students pursuing advanced degrees for specialisation or entering the workforce directly, applying their knowledge in diverse fields such as counselling, human resources, education, marketing, or social services.
The Road to Success with B. Tech. in Civil Engineering
Aerospace engineering has two sub-branches, aeronautical engineering that focuses on flying machines within the atmosphere, and astronautical engineering that covers everything beyond the earth’s atmosphere.
Innovations Shaping the Future of Civil Engineering
Understanding and the application of cognitive, behavioural, and communication competencies in professional settings.
03/01/2025
Secure a sustainable future with B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies
Mechatronics and the Future of Engineering
Practical Experience:
There is a growing trend where humans are creating future technologies that serve all the three components – people, planet and profits – while growing together
Application of basic research methodologies and critical thinking.
Future engineering technologies to bet on
Trending Post
A Journey into the Intriguing World of B.Sc. in Chemistry
Dr. Sudipa Nag
Chemical engineers play an integral role in the pharmaceutical industry, blending their expertise in chemical processes with innovative problem-solving to enhance drug development and production.
09/10/2024
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Career prospects after B.Tech. in Space Technology
This engineering student at UPES is Rancho 2.0
Submit
What are the Different Types of Engineering Branches?
of UPES.
Subscribe
Select Course
The Key Focus Areas in this program are:
Methods of Psychology:
By
In UPES web talk, defence expert decodes the engineering behind Rafale jets
the
Automotive Engineering: The Future of Hydrogen-Powered Vehicles
Reasons to Study Aerospace Engineering
On completion of a B.Tech. in Clean Energy Technologies, graduates acquire proficiency in subjects like solar thermal engineering, advanced material physics, solar power technology, and more
Please Select Course Type
Specialisation and Electives:
Organic chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic molecules, which are the basis of life and many useful materials.
In the not-too-distant future, the bustling city of Arvalia faced an unprecedented crisis. Once a haven of green parks and clear skies, it now grappled with heavy smog, parched rivers, and dwindling wildlife.
A subscriber email already exists.
02/12/2024
13/08/2024
The writer is Dr. Sudipa Nag, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Liberal Studies
Sceptical inquiry into challenges involving human behaviour and mental processes.
Career Paths Post B.Sc. in Chemistry: Job Opportunities and Salary Insights
The program places a dual focus on theoretical knowledge and the cultivation of professional skills applicable in various operational settings, such as psycho-social consulting, psychometric assessments, human resource management, training and guidance, and healthcare spanning public and private settings. In this article, we aim to provide an insightful overview of the course structure and the diverse array of knowledge covered upon completion of the undergraduate program.
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
The program places a strong emphasis on developing naturalistic observation skills using case studies, surveys, and correlational studies. It sheds light on factors and characteristics of the experimental method, providing a practical understanding of variables, experimental control, placebo effect, and double-blind procedure, applied through lab and field experiments.
Civil engineering has long been a cornerstone of modern society, shaping the infrastructure that underpins our daily lives.
UPES School of Engineering students demonstrating drone technology.
The Future of Aerospace Engineering: Emerging Technologies and Trends
UPES: Pioneering Research Excellence in India’s Higher Education
Embarking on a journey through the world of Chemistry with a B.Sc. degree opens a plethora of career paths.
How I bagged the prestigious L Austin Grant
Please enter mobile number
Hydrogen powdered vehicles will be the next big thing after EVs! New subsidies, environmental concerns, and growth of sustainable energy have together made Hydrogen-powered vehicles a very popular choice among the masses.
The degree program provides opportunities to explore applied areas in psychology, including abnormal psychology, health psychology, sports psychology, nutrition psychology, forensic psychology, industrial and organisational psychology, offering insights into psychological disorders, their diagnosis, treatment approaches, the interplay between psychological and nutrition factors with physical health, workplace behaviour, motivation, leadership, and organisational dynamics.
This program also highlights the close connections between Biology, Chemistry, and Calculus, demonstrating how these learnings can be applied to real-life situations. In this program, we have incorporated field exposure and experimental learning that provides students with a comprehensive understanding of industry requirements.
Future Scope:
-- None --
Appreciation and comprehension of the biological underpinnings of behaviour.
Career Paths for M.Sc. Organic Chemistry students: Beyond the Lab Bench
--None--
At least 40 million smartphone users in India are expected to take up 5G technology in the first year of it becoming available.
The aerospace industry - As we gaze into the future, the landscape of aerospace engineering is set to undergo a transformative journey.
The expansion of the EV industry will attract younger and result-oriented employees, who can bring value addition to the companies
In addition to academic coursework, students participate in workshops, seminars, and events focused on professional development. These activities aim to build essential workplace skills such as communication, critical thinking, ethical considerations, and cultural competence. The school’s faculty regularly organise lectures by experts in different areas of psychology exposing students to the vast prospects within the field of psychology.
Exploring the Earth’s secrets, deciphering its history, and contributing to critical areas like natural resource management, energy exploration, environmental protection, climate change, and hazard assessment, geology emerges as an immensely captivating and fulfilling career choice.
Broad understanding of psychology as a social and behavioural science, exploring its connection with other disciplines.
UPES Editorial Team
As the world becomes increasingly intelligent and autonomous, the aerospace industry undergoes a remarkable transformation.
The program underscores the practical application of psychology, offering students opportunities to engage in internships, practicum placements, or fieldwork experiences. These experiences allow learners to apply their knowledge and skills in real-world settings, gaining practical experience and insights into various psychology-related professions.
If you are one of those who love to explore the mysteries of outer space and have unique problem-solving skills, then a promising career in space technology is tailormade for you
Please enter last name
Career Paths for Chemical Engineering Graduates
Chemical engineering has a vast and ever-evolving landscape of opportunities. Gone are the days when chemical engineering was confined to dusty factories and complex reactors.
As a program, students can specialise in the following tracks: Counselling and Clinical Psychology, Organisational Behaviour, and Cognitive Neuropsychology. They have the flexibility to choose elective courses aligned with their interests. These electives enable them to deepen their knowledge in areas like clinical psychology, forensic psychology, educational psychology, or positive psychology, tailoring their educational learning to align with career aspirations and promoting them to pursue their specific areas of interest.
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future. The Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Psychology and Behaviour comprehensively delves into human behaviour, cognition, and psychological processes. This undergraduate program equips students with fundamental methods spanning cognitive, neuroscientific, social, developmental, and individual differences approaches. These are further expanded in advanced, research-led modules, facilitating a deeper understanding of social science and policy linkages.
Exploring Applied Areas:
As the course progresses, students will delve into the various subfields of psychology, exploring human cognition and social aspects of behaviour. They will gain insights into areas such as attention, memory, perception, interpersonal relationships, group dynamics, social influence, and developmental psychology, focusing on how individuals change and develop across their lifespan.
Analysis and synthesis using communication tools to disseminate information.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
24/01/2025
Email Address
Professional Development:
Anand Kumar of ‘Super 30’ fame doles out success mantras for engineering aspirants
Opportunities for Geology Graduates: Pioneers Shaping Earth’s Future and Diverse Career Horizons
Research and Collaboration:
Pursuing a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology and Behaviour involves engaging in research activities, and learning advanced research methods, experimental design, and data analysis techniques. These skills enable students to conduct research projects, contributing to the scientific understanding of psychological phenomena. The program may culminate in completing an honours thesis or a research project in the final year.
India is one of the largest producers of engineers in the world, with over 1.5 million engineering graduates emerging from various institutes every year.
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Experiential learning for students during visits to ISRO, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Skyroot Aerospace
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
One of the most insightful and powerful educators in India, Mr. Anand Kumar shared his thoughts on the skills needed to be a successful engineer and tips to thrive in today’s competitive world.
Are you the kind of person who loves to build and create? If so, the world of civil engineering is where your creativity and innovation can thrive.
9 engineering projects at UPES that created a social impact
A B.Sc. in Chemistry opens doors to a world filled with endless possibilities and discoveries.
In today’s rapidly evolving world, aspiring engineers are faced with a critical decision: Should they pursue their B.Tech. degree through an online program or opt for a traditional on-campus experience?
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A future perspective on the sustainable and renewable energy sector
Confused between B.E. & B.Tech? Explore key differences, career prospects, & how to choose the right engineering degree based on your goals and interests.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
4 emerging career paths for chemical engineers
The Role of Chemical Engineers in the Pharmaceutical Industry
privacy policy
Students enrolled in the program not only study core research methodologies but also develop crucial skills like experimental and questionnaire design, qualitative approaches like interviews and focus groups, and statistical analysis. This skill set enables them to design and execute high-quality, independent empirical research and effectively communicate their findings, contributing significantly to the real world.
18/02/2025
Last Name
Chemical engineers are known for their significant presence in refineries and petrochemical plants. However, a big challenge lies ahead of them. What after fossil fuels?