Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
Diana George
Expertise in communication:
20/09/2024
, you will also receive hands-on training through internships with GE Healthcare, as part of a rigorous curriculum that is designed to give experiential learning to the students. UPES’ B.Tech. in Biomedical Engineering with specialisation in Prosthetics is suitably designed and benchmarked against universities like Harvard and Stanford which are pioneers in the field.
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
Please enter email address
pursue the course at UPES
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Prostheses are either created manually or through a software interface called CAD or computer-aided design. CAD helps prosthetists to design and test their creation using 2D and 3D graphics and other analysis tools.
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
However, apart from having a degree, becoming a competent prosthetist also requires graduates to possess the below-mentioned soft skills:
Tags
Image courtesy: Pixabay
Prosthetists mainly treat patients with locomotive or neuro-muscular disabilities, helping them maintain or improve mobility through the use of such prostheses as artificial limbs, knees or hip replacements, glass eyes, or even bone, artery, and heart valve substitutes. The use of prosthetic implants enables recipients – chiefly amputees or specially-abled people – to lead a relatively normal life through the restoration of normal functions of the missing body parts.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
School of Health Sciences and Technology
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
If you choose to
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
The course will provide you with a sound knowledge of biomedical engineering and train you in areas of health science, engineering, design and computer science. It will equip young scientific engineers with problem-solving skills that are much needed in the field of biomedical engineering.
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
Prosthetists should be experts in communication as their job requires regular interaction with not only the patients, physiotherapists, doctors and the rehabilitation staff, but also the technicians who create the medical devices and implants. Effective communication skills are a must to be able to clarify the design and structural requirements of the device needed, while also explaining its use and treatment to the patients.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations. However, this rapid development would mean the creation of only 1800 jobs since it is a niche sector, thus making it highly competitive. This would make it necessary for aspiring prosthetists to specialise in the subject if they are to find valuable opportunities once they enter the job market.
-- None --
--None--
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Published 04/02/2022
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Patience:
Because this job requires handling or working with intricate equipment and instruments, prosthetists will need to have the stamina to deal with such physical activities. They may also be required to weigh their patients often or examine them while bending over or crouching down.
Physical Stamina:
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Detail-oriented:
Prosthetists must have an innate orientation for detail as the skill is extremely crucial for taking down accurate measurements which will ensure that the devices are made to fit.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
Upon completion of the course, graduates can work in a variety of positions such as Biomedical Materials Engineer, Biomedical Researcher, Clinical Researcher, Tissue Engineer, Biomedical Data Analyst, Biomedical Signal Analyst, Biomedical Device Engineer, Biomedical Sales and Marketing Personnel, Preventive and Protective Maintenance Engineers, Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Engineer, Healthcare Consultants, Assistant Professor, Manufacturer of medical devices, and Design Engineer.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
Pursuing a course or degree in Prosthetics, therefore, becomes important if you are looking to become a competent professional in the field. A specialisation in prosthetics will help you not only gain a foothold in the industry but also deal with the demands and rise to the challenges of this exacting job.
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
Apart from working in hospitals or rehabilitation centres, graduates can also consider going for higher studies in the subject. They can even opt to work as lecturers or teachers after achieving their degree.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Prosthetics refers to the science of creating artificial devices or implants or prostheses that are designed to replace real body parts which have been damaged or lost due to injury, disease, or a congenital disorder.
privacy policy
Aspiring prosthetists will need to have plenty of patience as they may often be required to work with patients who would need special attention for longer periods of time.
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Last Name