Café Frisco
One of the best things about Café Frisco is the spacious seating arrangements, apart from the variety of snacks on offer. Deesha Patel, pursuing M. Tech. in Health, Safety and Environment with specialization in Disaster Management, often likes to dig into their desserts. “As I have a sweet tooth, I love to visit this place,” she says. “It is cost-effective and the taste is good,” she adds. She finds the quality of food, hygiene, the service and the prices quite satisfactory.
Diana George
+91
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
It is not all studies or lab work at UPES. Below we look at the seven most frequented student hangouts in and around the UPES Bidholi campus
At Café Tif, you can either dine-in or order a takeaway. You can choose from your favourite pizzas or sandwiches, have a pop of fizz or a cup of hot tea, depending on the weather and your mood.
UPES Walkway
UPES collaborates with NGOs to celebrate the joy of giving
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
Course Type
Published 19/10/2021
Tulips
Please enter email address
Mansha Dhingra
Hues of Holi @UPES
*
Café Tif
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Apart from dishing out soul-comforting bowls of ramen, Maggi Point also offers a stunning view of the surrounding hills. The place is perfect for a quiet time away from the stress of studies. Arpit Jain, a first-year student of MCA (Master of Computer Applications) loves to come here. “Maggi point is really beautiful,” he says. “It has an amazing weather, the place becomes even more beautiful after 6-7 pm,” he adds. Aryan Saxena, a second-year student of CS Graphics and Gaming recommends Maggi Point for its “quick service”. “It is a good place to quench your thirst and quell your hunger pangs between classes,” he says. Aryan Deopa, pursuing B. Tech. in Graphics and Gaming, rates it “4 on a scale of 5” for “the open air, the nature, trees and no restrictions”.
Trending Post
UPES Sports Ground
Bidholi is situated in the Vikasnagar tehsil of Dehradun.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
UPES alumni reminisce their campus days
Tags
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
But it is not all crickets here.
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
By
the
Maggi Point
MiG Zone
But first, a bit about Bidholi.
Please Select Course Type
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
Please enter mobile number
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
-- None --
--None--
Tulips is a firm favourite with students who love their cold coffee or sandwiches. Also on offer at this eatery are baked goodies like muffins and cakes.
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
If none of the above enthrall you, then head out for a walk along the long-winding tree-lined road that leads out of the UPES campus, popularly called the UPES Walkway. Students have variously described the walkway as “adventurous”, “enjoyable and relaxing”, “good for trekking” and some much needed “me time”.
Please enter last name
Surrounded by the mountains of the Mussoorie range, Bidholi offers a quiet escape into the verdant hills, away from the rush and noise of the neighbouring cities of Mussoorie and Dehradun.
Ekta Kashyap
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
In fact, the small hill town is lovingly referred to as ‘Planet Bidholi’ by UPES students, named after a restaurant near the campus, for Bidholi often seems to envelop itself in its own cozy cocoon of clouds, appearing to be in a time zone of its own. Here, life seems to stroll by at its own leisurely pace.
Students taking a break from studies at the MiG Zone at UPES
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
There are a few hangouts in and around the campus that are usually abuzz with life and student chatter.
Email Address
UPES has an old MiG plane on its campus, which has slowly become one of the favourite zones for the students to sit and relax. Bahnijit Barman, a second-year student of Graphics and Gaming, finds the installation inspirational. “It is great to have something like a MiG. It is really motivational to hang around a relic of our past,” he says.
If you have already enrolled for a course at UPES or have been planning to and are wondering about what the place has to offer apart from academics, then look no further, for we have zeroed in on the 7 most popular hangouts in and around the UPES Bidholi campus.
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
7 popular hangouts of UPES students
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
School of Business
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
privacy policy
Some of the most popular ones include:
Last Name
Students get plenty of opportunity to unwind at the campus’ spacious sports ground which has facilities for football, cricket, volleyball and basketball. The university regularly organizes competitions and tournaments at university, district, state as well as national level. Some of its major competitions include the Volleyball Tournament, the Athletics Meet, the Basketball Tournament and the Handball Championship. Students are encouraged to participate in sports and extra-curricular activities to promote all-round development.