5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
The resource and investment constraints in developing and underdeveloped leads to the imitation of innovation. The influence of technological development in developing and underdeveloped nations depends on the channels via which the technology is transferred. The trade channel may benefit both developed and developing nations in the short term but it may also cause a long-term slowdown in global growth. The FDI channel may cause a shift in production and encourage an environment of invention leading to a strong IP regime, but if the access to imitation is not controlled, the production will shift and these nations will be left with limited resources. The licencing channel balances the cost of technology transmission and prevents imitation, In the long term, it reduces the licensing cost as the developed nations have resources to innovate and developing nations through their IP regime curtailing imitation proving to be mutually beneficial.
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
The writer is Abhijit Anand, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Law
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
Select Course
Abhijit Anand
of UPES.
Published 08/08/2023
The fundamental cause, of many causes, behind societal change and economic growth is innovation. Intellectual Property law puts innovation on a pedestal and creates an environment that safeguards creativity and promotes invention. It confers an array of rights to the proprietor of works that are the product of human intellect. So, it can be said that the fundamental principle of intellectual property law, be it copyright, trademarks, patents, and all on this spectrum, intends to protect the fundamental cause of societal and economic growth. Intellectual Property law protects and devises a mechanism to incentivise, inventions, designs, codes, image rights, brand identities and many more, to encourage innovation.
Subscribe
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
However, the IP regime is not short of its criticisms. The economic growth linked with it is highly dependent on the development status of a country. The developed countries more often enjoy the fruits in comparison to the developing or underdeveloped countries. It is hypothesised that the existence of stronger IP regimes in most jurisdictions diminishes the benefits once garnered. The exclusivity of IP rights leads to monopolistic trade practices adversely affecting the competition and manipulating the free market to have control over the tariff and prices. It hampers the choice of the consumer.
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
It is challenging for the existing IP legal frameworks to keep up with technological advancement. Blockchain, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and other related technologies provide unique challenges in identifying the inventor, characterising the innovation, and deciding whether such ideas should be covered by IP protection. Additionally, there is an increase in demand for worldwide access to healthcare and innovation. They shouldn’t be covered by IP protection, it is contended.
IP law indeed provides dominion over the product of the intellect and this exclusivity and incentive over the product for a set period encourages the stakeholders to invest time, capacity, and capital to further advancement. This nurtures a cycle of continuous technological progress and streamlines the process of innovation. It does not only put the wheels of innovation into motion but also facilitates knowledge sharing through disclosure in IP filings and technology transfer. The strong regime of IP laws plays a pivotal part for entrepreneurs in securing funding from venture capitalists for their innovation. It also helps in maintaining competition in the market and in turn fuelling economic growth. This is possible as the promise of exclusivity promotes investment in R&D and innovation. Along with rapid economic growth through competition, the set principles of royalty, ownership, and licensing develop an ecosystem of trust, as the fear of intellectual theft and resultant loss is negated through a robust regime the IP laws, and it creates an opportunity for collaboration in both horizontal and vertical market among the business. This collaboration amplifies technological advancement.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
The role of Intellectual Property Law in fostering technological advancements
26/07/2024
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
The objective is to strike a balance between access to innovation that leads to technological advancement and necessity, thus there cannot be any blanket access. However, it cannot be disputed that IP legislation plays a crucial role in advancing technology.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022