Choosing between a B.Sc. Honours degree and a B.Sc. degree is a critical decision for students passionate about science and technology.
19/02/2025
Image sharpening and restoration to create a finer image
20/09/2024
Top 10 data science careers that are shaping the future
Measuring various objects in an image
Transforming Data into Knowledge: The Role of Machine Learning in Computer Science
Image Processing or Computer Vision is one of the emerging technologies and a driving force behind the Industry 4.0 revolution. As the name implies, Image Processing is a method that involves conducting various operations on an image to enhance it or collect useful information from it. Computer Vision is the superset of Image Processing. A computer vision system performs emulation of vision at a human scale using image processing algorithms. Image processing can be classified into two categories– analog and digital. Analog image processing is used for hard copies or printouts of images. Image analysts use various visual techniques to interpret the raw data. In digital image processing, computer algorithms help manipulate digital images. Image processing primarily involves three crucial steps – importing the image, analyzing and manipulating the image, and the final output of the modified image based on analysis.
Students and faculty from UPES were among the finalists at Toycathon 2021. UPES was one of the 7 teams selected by AICTE to present their unique gaming idea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
Shahina Anwarul
+91
12/09/2024
09/09/2024
First Name
If you are tech savy and want to have a deeper understanding of tech world the BCA is just the degree for you.
Enhancing decision-making: Machine Learning applications in engineering
Parminder Singh Sethi stands out as a software engineer of exceptional calibre. With over 78 patents granted by the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
Image retrieval
Unlock Your Coding Potential with B. Tech. CSE
21/11/2024
“Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.” ― Martin Fowler.
Course Type
From UPES Alumnus to Innovation Leader: Parminder Singh Sethi’s Inspiring Journey with 78+ Granted Patents from the USPTO
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are two of the most exciting and innovative fields of computer science.
Image processing is widely used for defense and security in various applications such as target tracking and detection, secret messages transmission, missile guidance, etc. It is also used in the area of forensics. Face detection and recognition is another application in the field of security where image processing is playing a significant role. It detects and identifies faces by analyzing and matching integral facial features and expressions. Face recognition today is being used for various purposes such as attendance, surveillance, preventing crimes, finding missing people, recognizing people for e-passports, mask detection, etc. It’s a technology that is working towards making our world safer and smarter.
Cybersecurity in the Digital Age
Please enter email address
Below are some of the top options for an aspiring image processing engineer:
8 trends that will shape the future of human resource management
In the rapidly evolving landscape of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), the integration of machine learning has emerged as a game-changer.
Choosing the Right Path Post B.Tech: Deciding Between M.Tech. and MBA
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
*
25/07/2024
From being students at UPES School of Computer Science to becoming successful tech entrepreneurs, Divyani Singh and Anshul Saxena have achieved an incredible milestone.
Top Benefits of Studying BCA
20/12/2024
In agriculture, image processing solutions help monitor the growth of a crop right from planting to harvest. It also helps in disease detection, nutrient deficiencies detection, weed detection, and fruit grading. If you are interested in making agriculture smarter and more sustainable in the future, this can be the right fit for you.
UPES alumni secure ₹4 crore seed funding for revolutionary tech start-up
Trending Post
UPES School of Comuter Science
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
With an investment of ₹ 50 crore, the university aims to foster cutting-edge research, revolutionise industries, and empower the next generation of AI pioneers.
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Confused between B.Sc. & B.Sc. Honours? Discover differences in scope, curriculum, career opportunities, & which degree to choose!
Subscribe
14/09/2024
Boost Your Career with an M.Tech. in Computer Science
Leveraging Machine Learning for Intelligent Decision-Making in Computer Science and Engineering
By
the
One technology that has evolved continuously and found widespread application and acceptance in every conceivable part of life is Machine Learning (ML).
Please Select Course Type
Published 23/04/2021
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning as Premier Career Paths in the 21st Century!
Unlocking the Potential: Machine Learning’s Impact on Computer Science and Engineering
Difference Between B.Sc. Computer Science vs. BCA Course
Robotics:
A subscriber email already exists.
There are five main purposes of image processing —
B.Sc. Honours Degree vs. B.Sc. Degree: What's the Difference?
UPES fuels groundbreaking research; earmarks ₹50 crore for AI Center of Excellence
10 CSE Final Year Projects to Elevate Your Engineering Profile!
13/08/2024
The world of technology is rapidly evolving, and the demand for skilled computer science engineers is higher than ever.
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and the environment, among others. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless
Medical:
These are just some of the sectors that are extensively using image processing solutions. In the Industry 4.0 era, where automation will be driving change, almost every industry will utilize image processing techniques to turn digital data into useful information. As an image processing engineer, your options are limitless, and your future is bright. If you have the passion, with accurate training and practice, even you can have a great career in the field of Image Processing or Computer Vision.
As a Computer Science Engineering (CSE) student, your final year project is not just a mandatory academic requirement—it's a golden opportunity to showcase your skills, creativity, and readiness for the tech industry.
The goal of robotics is to design machines that can assist humans. Image processing helps to increase the vision of the machines or robots. As you can see, robots are widely used in the current situation in various ways like for sanitization purposes, taking care of the patients due to social distancing, logistics robots for the delivery of food and other essentials, etc. The employment of image processing techniques in this field is increasing rapidly. If you want to play with machines as an image processing engineer, this can be a fit for you.
26/07/2024
As an image processing engineer, you can play a crucial role in a wide range of industries. Depending on your interests and skill-set, you can pick the industry that you would like to work in.
In today's rapidly evolving job market, having a strong educational foundation is more important than ever.
Unravel the world of BCA Specialisations
Please enter mobile number
B.Tech vs. B.Sc in Computer Science: Which Is Better for Your Tech Career?
06/08/2024
-- None --
According to recent studies, cybercrime is expected to cost the world $10.5 trillion annually by 2025.
Employee preferences, shifts in the role and importance of unions in the business world, work-life balance of the employees, the tools they use, and organisational processes, will change and thus affect human resource management
--None--
Image recognition
PM Modi congratulates Team UPES for board game Aarogya, calls it a ‘union of ancient knowledge and modern innovation’
Top 7 Programming Languages to Learn in 2024 for Computer Science Students
The image processing industry has been growing at a steady pace, with rising demand from industries such as healthcare, military, agriculture, and environment, among others. Some of the significant areas of applications include computer vision face detection, forecasting, remote sensing, feature extraction, optical sorting, and medical image processing.
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
UPES was an associate sponsor of the Pune Design Festival, 2022. One of the workshops at the festival ‘Into the Metaverse – AR/VR’ was presented by UPES faculty Dr. Anmol Srivastava and Pankaj Badoni, who gave engaging insights about the early stages of Metaverse.
In the food industry, image processing systems enable quality assessment, grading, and sorting of different varieties of food items. In the factories, image processing systems can help sort fresh vegetables from rotten ones by inspecting the color, size, shape, and blemishes. The implementation of image processing techniques in this industry is growing at a steady pace especially with the rise of market demand for better products.
To preserve natural resources for future generations and to minimise their negative effects on the environment, conservation refers to the ethical management and sustainable use of these resources.
In recent years, the field of AI has shown impressive progress and innovation, affecting our everyday lives in unprecedented ways.
Decision-making is a ubiquitous and indispensable aspect of responsible human life.  Decisions must be made at individual and at institutional levels.
UPES professors give insights on Metaverse at Pune Design Festival
Please enter last name
Medical imaging is one of the growth drivers of the image processing industry due to its role in the early detection of diseases. In the current Covid-19 situation, image processing is widely used in the medical field like detection of Covid through chest X-Ray images, detection of fever and other symptoms through face image analysis, etc. Medical imaging is a crucial component in the clinical evaluation of patients suffering from cardiovascular disease, neurological disorders, and cancer, among other conditions. The 3D images created with image processing solutions play a critical role in helping doctors perform surgeries. If you have a keen interest in medical science, this can be your calling.
image processing specialists
Choosing the right degree is one of the most critical decisions you'll make when planning your tech career. In the field of computer science, two of the most popular undergraduate courses are the Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) and the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Computer Science.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Visualization, where the aim is to identify occluded objects
How can conservation be improved by computation?
With the exponential rise in generation of data, almost every organisation today needs skilled data scientists who can analyse and interpret the data in a way that helps the organisations prediction future scenarios
Defense and Security:
Congratulations, B.Tech. trailblazers! As you stand at the crossroads post-B.Tech., the decision between M.Tech. and MBA looms large.
4 industries that are actively hiring image processing specialists
An exploration of the geometric study of computational disease tagging of ECGs has been presented to highlight the steps involved in transforming data into knowledge.
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Choosing a career path is a significant decision that shapes your future. One of the popular choices among students today is pursuing a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA).
Related Articles
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
The writer is Shahina Anwarul, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Computer Science
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
image processing
Generative AI Versus Machine Learning
Agriculture:
Food industry:
privacy policy
Last Name