Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
Diana George
a. Exchange of academic and research information and materials
20/09/2024
The MoU seeks to promote academic excellence and research and development. It seeks to set up a long-term alliance between UPES and AIIMS Rishikesh to develop a top-notch health infrastructure for the people of Uttarakhand.
+91
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients.
12/09/2024
First Name
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
The MoU states that the scope and content of programs shall be mutually decided by UPES and Merck and that UPES shall be responsible for creating awareness about the activities among its students and facilitating their registration for the programs necessity for developing biosimilar products, amongst other things. Click here to get started with UPES right away.
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
d. Organisation of joint conferences
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
UPES X Taipei Medical University
1. Encouraging the exchange of academic information and materials in the belief that the research and educational processes at both the institutions will be enhanced with the mutual understanding between their respective faculty, scholars and students by the establishment of such exchanges.
c. Organisation of joint research programs
Please enter email address
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
UPES X Merck Life Science Pvt Ltd
27/08/2024
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
25/07/2024
UPES X AIIMS Rishikesh
TMU is ranked 407 overall in QS World University Rankings, with Pharmacy and Pharmacology subject rank being 101-150. It leads in many research areas, including translational cancer medicine, neuroscience, pulmonary medicine, AI in medicine, cell therapy & immunotherapy, and medical device development.
The MoU with Merck Life Science was signed on December 13, 2021, to collaborate in taking a joint initiative for scientific skill development of students of UPES by providing necessary support in subject matter guidance, regulatory consultation and necessary skill development training virtually at Merck High Skill Development Centre in Chandigarh.
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
b. Exchange of periodical academic publications
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
Please enter first name
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Tags
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
17/10/2024
By
the
School of Health Sciences and Technology
UPES X Drishti Eye Institute
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
13/08/2024
2. Agreeing to promote the following exchange activities based on their respective academic and educational needs:
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
26/07/2024
e. Other academic exchanges agreed to by both institutions
In addition, TMU has helped incubate 18 start-ups and raised an Entrepreneurship Fund that offers support to accelerate the commercialisation of research findings along with the establishment of TMU Biomed Accelerator.
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
--None--
The MoU with Taipei Medical University (TMU) was signed to create a collaboration that will explore exchange of students and visiting research scholars, joint research projects in the field of pharmaceutical and health sciences, participation in international conferences, seminars, symposia, workshops and other activities organised by both parties and exchange of academic materials and other information.
UPES Editorial Team
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
Both the institutes have developed major research collaborations across various disciplines including microbiology, biochemistry, and clinical research. Recent publications in the field of health and diagnostics where authors from both institutes contributed have drawn attention from across the globe.
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
Both the institutes have been in rigorous discussion to submit joint research proposals for funding. Signing MOU at this important juncture is of clinical importance which will smoothen the collaborations between these neighbouring institutes of Uttarakhand.
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
The MoU with AIIMS Rishikesh was signed in December 2021 between Dr Veena Agarwal (Registrar, UPES) and Dr Vartika Saxena (Dean Research, AIIMS Rishikesh) who came on the same page to make this historical event happen. Dr Neeraj Mahindroo, Dean, School of Health Sciences, initiated the process and has been instrumental throughout.
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
The MoU with Drishti Eye Institute was reached on November 24, 2021, with the following objectives:
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
25/10/2024
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
Related Articles
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
The School of Health Sciences at UPES has entered into agreements with several prestigious medical institutions over the past few months, such as AIIMS Rishikesh, Drishti Eye Institute and Taipei Medical University.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Image credit: Pixabay
privacy policy
The MoU also aims at promoting research and academic exchanges amongst the students and faculties of both institutes to impart quality knowledge of health sciences and technology associated.
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
Published 12/01/2022
Last Name