5 traits hotshot corporate lawyers should possess
+91
12/09/2024
02/01/2025
First Name
UPES School of Law student Shubhransi Kumar during a semester exchange program at University of California Berkeley (UCB)
Government organisations, private as well as multinational companies are looking for young dynamic lawyers, attorneys and advisors who hold specialized knowledge in international law
Course Type
Reading teaches learners to make connections between global and local concerns and helps them build their critical and creative thinking abilities. It entails bargaining with people while working together and using clear communication. These are crucial in the twenty-first century as more and more vocations are rendered obsolete by the advancement of artificial intelligence. The people who can do what Artificial Intelligence cannot are the ones who will stay important, and literature cultivates precisely these abilities.
How AI and ML are transforming the legal profession
Career prospects after LL.M. in International Law
Dr. Mariyam Ilyas Siddiqui
Please enter email address
If you are interested in pursuing a career in law, you might have come across the term BA LL.B. (Hons.).
Career Options After LL.B: What Can You Do with a Law Degree?
12/08/2024
01/10/2024
Mooting, researching, debating and writing legal essays are an essential part of a law student’s life. To be a successful lawyer you must ace the strategies behind these coveted contests
*
What is the Difference Between Lawyer and Advocate?
03/01/2025
Debating and making logical arguments are the most desirable skills in any law professional. All law students must brush up on these skills as arguing in court is not just about clash of ideas; rather, it is all about how well they can express their understanding on the subject matter and agree to disagree in the best possible manner.
Trending Post
Corporate law involves working closely with companies and organizations to advise them about legal rights, obligations, and responsibilities.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Published 08/08/2023
The field of law, when coupled with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), will bring explosive advancements in the industry. An LLM degree with a specialisation in AI and ML can equip students to master the law-tech sector
Law Careers: Implications of Allowing Foreign Law Firms & Lawyers to Practice in India
By
the
Please Select Course Type
What it takes to win a parliamentary debate
India has finally opened its doors to foreign law firms. The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently permitted foreign lawyers and law firms to practice foreign law in the country on a reciprocity basis.
LL.B. 3 Year vs. LL.B. 5 Year: Comparing Law Degree Programs
5 alternative law careers: What to do if you don’t want to be a lawyer?
A subscriber email already exists.
13/08/2024
5 career prospects after LL.M. in Criminal Law
26/07/2024
After years of reading literature, deciphering its meaning on your own, writing about it, and drawing conclusions from it, you might be wondering how to use your knowledge most effectively in the field. Even though the work you do after graduation might not exactly resemble what you did while you were a student, you will unquestionably employ the highly honed abilities you have acquired in your new position. Studying Literature is a personal as well as a collegiate experience. It helps an individual understand society and its operations. It gives us an enriched understanding of different worlds, timelines, languages, traditions, cultures, etc., and shapes one’s individual personality. Studying literature provides access to the realm of imaginative creativity. It not only fosters the development of skills necessary for today’s global world, but it also encourages creativity and change. Through stories, novels, poems, and plays, literature studies enable us to comprehend our society in all of its social, political, economic, and cultural facets.
Last Name
How Client Counselling Competitions nurture law students
Please enter mobile number
International Trade and Investment Law: A career beyond boundaries
With the rise in white-collar crimes, the prospects look bright for students wanting to pursue a degree in Criminal Law.
‘Life-changing’: UPES student on semester exchange program at UC Berkeley
-- None --
UPES School of Law organises ADR fest ‘Madhyastham’
--None--
An education in law isn’t supposed to bind you to one career choice. It should be an enabler.
UPES School of Law graduates Divyanshu Gupta, Hari Priya, and Kartikey Kesarwani describe their journey to success
UPES Editorial Team
06/09/2024
Lawyers with expertise in International Trade and Investment Law continue to boost the global economy by ensuring the free movement of goods and services across as many borders as possible, while respecting the laws and regulations.
Please enter last name
LL.B. stands for bachelor of legislative Law and can be pursued via a 3 year LL.B. or a 5 year LL.B. course.
Protection of the environment is imperative and cannot be ignored by the world. The success stories of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Environment Agency (EA) in the USA and the UK are widely known. This blog envisages probing the extent of achievements of the Indian agencies responsible for environmental amelioration and protection
Law and Technology: How AI is Changing Legal Practice
4 ways to get the most out of Moot Court competitions
Literature has a vocabulary that may appear difficult to certain readers, but as they read more complicated and complex texts, they also expand their vocabulary in the process. Literature also benefits people who are learning a new language since it helps them improve their abilities when they encounter words that may be foreign to them. We cannot disregard the incredible, strong benefits that reading has on our brains. Reading books improves our ability to focus and stimulates our minds, which is good for our brains. It also widens our creativity. Like any other muscle in our body, the brain also requires training to maintain a strong and healthy self. Reading helps to develop the brain’s creative regions, which foster creativity and originality.
The writer is Dr. Mariyam Ilyas Siddiqui, Assistant Professor, UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media
How preserving forests is an exigency to sustain life
How Moot Court Competitions help students to become successful lawyers
BBA LLB Vs. BA LLB: Which Degree to Choose?
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Moot Court Competitions are a popular platform for budding law professionals to understand the fine nuances of mooting.
UPES alumni shine in Bihar Judiciary Examination 2022
Email Address
Please select Course
23/08/2024
UPES Admission Enquiry
Related Articles
In addition to these benefits, a wide array of career prospects can be explored in the field of literature. The publishing industry is one of the most glamorous industries, with all the popular and bestseller writers to its credit. However, it is the academic publishing sector that offers the most exciting jobs for editors, copy editors, freelance writers, technical writers, bloggers, etc. A degree in literature also allows one to get into translator and interpreter jobs. These jobs are considered white-collar jobs in the field. Translators and interpreters are the link between two languages, two distinct cultures, and two incredibly unlike individuals. With the knowledge of literature, this particular career aspect is very much in demand and a crucial one at present. It is one of those professions, which offers excellent prospects for individuals who prefer or desire to work autonomously. Opportunities to build a solid professional career independent of coworkers or the whims of the labor market are offered by freelancing or organizational work. The work’s transnational nature also suggests that the translator is building connections and links abroad in order to grow their vocation into a legitimate business. When the entire world is on social media, the job of a social media manager becomes pivotal. A literature degree could help you be in charge of creating and executing successful digital marketing plans for social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat. As a social media manager, one would produce and distribute gripping tales across platforms to promote user and subscriber engagement. Social media managers can find employment in a wide range of industries, including business, education, and nonprofits. Another creative job prospect that a literature graduate could look at is that of a copywriter. Copywriters work in a variety of industries, creating unique, attention-grabbing content in accordance with client requests. Literature graduates can appreciate this creative position because it involves writing, reading, and proofreading duties. Copywriters frequently work in the advertising industry, penning screenplays, jingles, blog posts, and other things.
14/08/2024
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Unlocking the professional benefits of studying Literature
privacy policy
Specializations in BA LL.B. (Hons.)
One of the most important traits of a law professional is to counsel people who seek assistance in understanding the legal implications of their actions.
30/08/2024
Students participating in the Mediation Competition at Madhyastam, UPES ADR Fest 2022