cancer-related mutations
Unlocking future frontiers: Unparalleled advantages of pursuing a career in Allied Health Sciences
20/09/2024
due to cancer. By
by detecting and removing
can mean that only a small area needs treatment.
+91
. Patients diagnosed at an early stage can often choose from a wider range of treatments, including
12/09/2024
Published 25/10/2024
that may develop into cancer, enabling timely intervention. Common screening tests include
, can help monitor prostate cancer. While these screenings can be incredibly effective, they are not perfect and may sometimes produce
early detection, public awareness, and healthier lifestyle habits
First Name
have significantly lowered breast cancer mortality rates, while
Chandrayaan-3, India’s third lunar mission, is set to open new avenues for scientific research and exploration in the field of biological and health sciences.
Technological advances in food have clearly changed what goes on our plate and how. With growing scope and advances in the field, private and public organisations are increasingly hiring food tech professionals. As a profession, Food Technology is not only lucrative but also a fulfilling career that promises security, a diverse environment, good earning possibilities, as well as recognition
How to become a nutritionist
, are improving the accuracy of cancer screening and enabling more personalised approaches. Liquid biopsies, which use blood samples to detect
Food technology can save the world. And you can be a part of it
Course Type
In the realm where innovation intersects with healthcare, the School of Health Sciences and Technology at UPES, Dehradun, stands as a beacon of excellence.
UPES ties up with AIIMS, Drishti Eye Institute, Merck and Taipei Medical University
prevention through early detection and regular screening
Why Early Detection Matters
about the importance of screening and early detection is critical. Many people avoid screenings due to
Please enter email address
precancerous growths
What is the Average Salary of B.Pharma Graduates in India?
, while colonoscopies are suggested for
12/08/2024
Health science is expanding rapidly and gaining popularity. For those who are passionate about health science, the pursuit of an M.Sc. in health sciences is an ultimate adventure.
*
Rev up your career with a B.Tech. in Biotechnology
The Role of Screening Programs
27/08/2024
25/07/2024
916,827 deaths
15.3 million deaths
healthy lifestyle choices
globally. Despite advancements in treatment,
public awareness
imaging data
Emerging Trends in M.Sc.: How to Ace Today's Scientific Landscape with M.Sc. in Health Science
, can offer a
Science has advanced at a rapid rate in recent years to produce technologies that benefit humanity, making biotechnology a major career option for the youth today.
Acting beyond borders through globalisation of healthcare
family history of cancer
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
for colorectal cancer, and
Although WHO states that people of all ages can be infected by New Corona Virus (2019-nCOV), a certain section of the population is more vulnerable.
Trending Post
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) tests
Role of pharmacists in the global healthcare system
, these numbers are expected to increase to
liquid biopsies
or consider preventive measures.
a priority, we can greatly improve survival rates, reduce the intensity of treatments, and help more people live healthier lives.
were diagnosed worldwide, leading to
Biochemistry has been the key to decoding our DNA, genes and finding cures for diseases. It’s a field with limitless opportunities.
prevent cancer
Please enter first name
1.46 million new cases
can significantly improve survival rates, reduce the need for aggressive treatments, and enhance the quality of life for patients. For example, cancers like
India takes pole position in drug manufacturing
Early cancer detection
Mobile Number
low-income communities
often allows for less invasive treatments. For instance, detecting breast cancer early may only require a minor procedure rather than a full
Tele medicine: Role of nutritionists and dieticians during a health care crisis
Screening programs
more frequent and specialised screening
Pap smear
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
Combining
. For example, mammograms are generally recommended for
The field of prosthetics is expected to grow 20 percent over the next ten years, a rate faster than the average for all occupations.
Subscribe
less invasive surgeries, targeted therapies, or immunotherapy
non-invasive
Mission Chandrayaan-3: New Avenue for Biological and Health Sciences Research
30% of cancers
17/10/2024
By
Cancer is a major global health concern, affecting millions of people each year. In
the
women over 40
age, family history, lifestyle habits, and genetic predispositions
false positives or negatives
may need to undergo screening earlier or more frequently. Similarly,
Early-stage detection
The demand for healthcare professional is never going down, instead during and post COVID-19 the demand has grown immensely.
On World Health Day, the commitment of UPES School of Health Sciences is to generate world-class leaders in pharmacy and allied disciplines who can contribute towards making healthcare accessible to one and all
4 Lakhs Pharmacists Graduate EVERY YEAR! A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) degree opens up a world of opportunities in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
UPES is a multidisciplinary school that gives exposure to different aspects of healthcare including pharmacy, food and nutrition, management and technology
Top benefits of pursuing B. pharma degree
. Those with a
way to monitor health, while AI can analyse
Please Select Course Type
India has everything it takes to become the pharmacy of the world. UPES School of Health Sciences has designed programs according to the needs of the pharmaceutical industry.
Cancer screening
mastectomy
Pharmacy Career Opportunities: What Jobs Can You Get After Graduation?
A subscriber email already exists.
is also a valuable tool, as it can identify
Strategies to combat the economic burden of cancer
can also play a role in cancer prevention. Up to
2040
cost-effective
9.7 million deaths
, which may not be feasible for advanced cases.
The writer is Dr. Dhruv Kumar, Professor, UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology
13/08/2024
. In India alone, there were
like smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, and a lack of physical activity can increase the risk of certain cancers, making regular screenings more important.
. Similarly, early detection of cervical cancer through a
Top 10 Reasons for pursuing B. Pharm. Course
play a crucial role in reducing cancer-related deaths. For example,
B.Pharma Salary Trends in India: What to Expect as a Fresh Graduate
Well-trained nutritionists can leverage technology to provide healthcare services via telephonic or video calls, emails, or instant chats.
low-dose CT scans
Educational campaigns
26/07/2024
can reduce cancer incidence and save countless lives.
Please enter mobile number
The world-class pharmaceutics lab at UPES is fitted with some of the most advanced equipment to give students an insight into the making of drugs in solid, semi-solid and liquid forms and the rationale behind administering them in oral, topical and inhaled forms.
where access to healthcare is limited.
treatment options
have been beneficial for high-risk lung cancer patients. While no screening method is flawless—there is always the possibility of
artificial intelligence (AI)
18/11/2024
04/10/2024
-- None --
could potentially be prevented through habits such as
for breast cancer,
adults over 50
--None--
Raising
. Advanced-stage cancers often require complex and prolonged treatments, driving up healthcare costs. Early intervention can significantly reduce this financial burden. Some screening methods, like
Genetic testing
UPES Editorial Team
remains the most effective strategy to combat cancer and save lives.
A Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma.) degree opens up a wide range of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare, and beyond.
fear, misinformation, or lack of awareness
Learn how prosthetics can transform disabilities into opportunities for patients
Aside from medical benefits, early cancer detection can also be more
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
New Corona Virus (COVID-19): Who is at higher risk?
and
. Therefore, regular check-ups and discussions with healthcare providers are essential to ensure that screenings are accurate and used appropriately.
mammography screenings
avoiding smoking, limiting alcohol intake, eating a balanced diet, and maintaining a regular exercise routine
Emerging technologies, like
chemotherapy
—regular follow-ups and consultations with healthcare providers can ensure effective monitoring. By making
or
false results
, can even
abnormal cells
World Pharmacist Day is celebrated on September 25 every year to promote awareness about the importance and role of pharmacists in today’s world.
2022
, nearly
inherited mutations
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
nearly 99% and 90%, respectively
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
for cervical cancer,
Email Address
have high survival rates when caught early—
can help to normalise the practice of regular screenings, reduce the stigma surrounding cancer, and address common myths, such as the belief that a cancer diagnosis is always fatal. Promoting
The Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharma) is one of the most sought-after degrees for those aspiring to join the booming pharmaceutical industry in India.
lifestyle factors
Not everyone needs to be screened for every type of cancer, and the decision depends on several factors, including
with great precision. These advancements pave the way for a future where cancer screening is even more effective and tailored to individual needs.
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
.
23/08/2024
Are you passionate about healthcare and intrigued by the world of pharmaceuticals?
Pharmacovigilance: A Growing Field for B.Pharma Graduates in India
breast and colorectal cancer
The MoUs seek to promote research and development, academic excellence and exchanges among students and faculties as well as encourage joint participation in international conferences, seminars and workshops
The economic burden of cancer poses a serious challenge for societies, especially in resource-limited settings where people lack access to adequate prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care services.
Cancer: The Best Prevention is Screening and Early Detection
20 million new cancer cases
Related Articles
before they turn malignant. This proactive approach not only improves outcomes but also provides more
Avant-garde pharmaceutics laboratory at UPES enthuses learners
colonoscopies
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
Pap smears
that raise cancer risk. Those found to have specific genetic markers can opt for
29.9 million new cases
for lung cancer in high-risk individuals. Other tests, such as
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
. However, these rates drop sharply if the disease is detected at a later stage, when it may have already spread.
mammograms
early detection
privacy policy
Who Should Get Screened and How Awareness Helps
, particularly in
5 career options to consider with a degree in M.Sc Biochemistry
is a powerful tool that can save lives by detecting cancer early, often before symptoms appear. Regular screening can find
Last Name