Meet the women scientists who are leading the battle against COVID-19
Sectors that attract the most venture capital
As countries, including India, reel under the Coronavirus pandemic, several women scientists are powering through with their uncompromising attitude to help rebuild the nation and the world
Investors and venture capitalists are willing to take substantial risks when it comes to investing in sectors such as edtech, online gaming and social media apps
+91
Despite the pandemic, undergraduate and postgraduate students from School of Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Business, School of Design, and School of Law received 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
First Name
Bhuyan’s topic was approved by the research council at Paris-Saclay. He will receive funds to stay for one year of his PhD program in Paris from 2022 to 2023, and subsequently, he will spend two years at UPES to earn a joint PhD degree.
Recently, Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, won the prestigious Cotutelle Doctoral grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. In a Cotutelle program, a doctoral student is co-supervised by two supervisors from different universities, and the student spends time at each of these institutions.
Bikram Pratim Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Informatics, UPES School of Computer Science, has won the Cotutelle Doctoral Grant to complete his PhD work at the University of Paris-Saclay, France. He shares his insights on the preparations that go into the pursuit of a doctoral degree
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Self-healing material for improving air traffic safety
My first-ever experience of attending an international conference at Harvard University
Course Type
Please enter email address
*
UPES law students to gain industry insights from Professors of Practice
I’m leaving, because with such a privileged role comes responsibility – the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead and also when you are not. I know what this job takes. And I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It’s that simple.
UPES placements buck the trend; rack up 2500+ offers from 480+ companies
They defied the odds and indigent circumstances to redefine their future. Nurtured by Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) and UPES, they are progressing in their academic journey and rapidly transitioning into skilled professionals, ready to take on the world
Trending Post
From reaching triple the global average in research output to faculty who are among highly cited researchers in the world, here is a glimpse of the university’s magnificent accomplishments in research over the years
Talking about his expectations from the Cotutelle Doctoral Program, Bhuyan says he was looking for a joint PhD collaborative research in the field of Knowledge Representation in Smart Urban Agriculture. “I want to have a proper understanding and work with cutting-edge technologies from the top University in France.”
Published 22/12/2022
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Starting a doctorate degree comes with several questions and apprehensions. The journey is arduous. However, academicians, desirous of becoming subject matter experts and resolving societal challenges, often have to undertake the tough path for a fulfilling career.
Ishanth Bansal, a third-year law student at UPES, is the founder of two NGOs – ‘Shuruwat Foundation Uttarakhand’ and ‘Youth Warriors’. Through his education, he aspires to build a fair and equal society, where no one is deprived of their rights
Submit
Select Course
of UPES.
UPES School of Computer Science
Subscribe
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a B.Tech. CSE Graphics & Gaming (2018-22) student, who got placed at Microsoft, reveals the keys to answering questions during placement interviews, and how participating in performing arts proved beneficial in landing the coveted job
I was nominated as a delegate at two renowned conferences – HPAIR and HUII – organised by Harvard University in 2020
By
the
Elaborating on the process of getting a grant for PhD, Bhuyan emphasises that choosing a proper guide for research work is an integral step. “Start mailing them by looking at their research interests and papers published in that field,” he advised students aspiring to pursue the coveted degree.
PhD
Please Select Course Type
A subscriber email already exists.
Student placed at Microsoft with 50 LPA shares how he aced his job interview
UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, UPES School of Law has appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills among students through their vast industry experience.
Harshit Joshi, who pursued B.Tech. with a specialisation in Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology, got placed at Samsung. He credits his success to the advanced curriculum, approachable faculty, R&D labs, and placement cell at UPES
Shailja Katyal Verma
Joining hearts and minds: top lessons from women leaders
Stressing on the preparation required for performing cutting-edge research as part of PhD, Bhuyan says that striking the right balance between theory and practice is crucial. “A proper balance between theoretical and implementation work is necessary. The studies provided should be proved in a mathematical sense so that a formal platform is created for the implementation work. Keeping oneself updated about the developments in the respective field of study is also important. Being a faculty helped me in this area,” he informs.
The mission of an extraordinary institution is multifaceted, of which teaching and learning, and research and discovery, are the most critical components.
Please enter mobile number
This law student is a founder of two non-profits
How students benefit from conducting research at university
High-quality mentoring programs in higher education helps learners acclimate to new subjects and increase the likelihood of academic success.
4 reasons why industrial visits are important for students
-- None --
Research and Innovation
UPES Prof wins prestigious grant for Ph.D.
--None--
The world is interconnected through globalisation. Yet, the benefits and burdens of this phenomenon are not equally distributed among people. The result? Inequality in education, health, and access to resources.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Amul MD reveals recipe behind the success of India’s beloved dairy brand
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
UPES achieves record-breaking milestones in research
5 easy tips to reconnect with your creativity
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Email Address
Bhuyan adds, “Once there is a proper understanding with the guide and he/she too wants to recruit in the post, start the process with writing a research proposal with the guide. The proposal will be placed in a portal ‘ADUM’. All selected proposals will go through the Lab Supervisors and the Director of the research pole. Lab Supervisors will have a meeting concerning the application. The Director will proceed to take an interview for the same. Now if it gets selected, various stages of interview (three in my case) will be taken for the grant of the proposal.”
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Walking the talk: How UPES is building a better world through its CSR initiatives
Please select Course
UPES Admission Enquiry
How industry-aligned curriculum helped this student bag an offer from Samsung
Related Articles
Access to education – their springboard to a better life
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
Good mentoring is critical to a mentee’s career success
privacy policy
Microsoft Ux Director on the expanding role of designers, and why user need is at the core of it
In a power talk with the students of UPES School of Business, Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Amul, spoke about the business model of the cooperative, why consistency is key, and what it takes to become a home-grown dairy giant
Creativity is a skill many assume to be unlearnable, but these simple tips can help you unleash your creative side
When global stalwarts come together to share their journey, fine and acute insights abound. One such interaction was hosted by ‘CII Design Talk Series’, a platform where industry doyens spell their success formula and celebrate design from across the world.
UPES industrial visits are one of their kind – enriching experiences focussed on networking and learning practical lessons about work processes and business functions
Last Name
A public research university, Paris-Saclay is ranked 1st in France and 13th in the world in the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) ranking, and 46th in the QS subject rank of Computer Science and Information Systems.