Media buyer:
Media and Entertainment
+91
There is a growing need for professionals with expertise in public relations, corporate communications and data analytics. Mastering social media skills can, thus, open up several career avenues for students
02/01/2025
First Name
Career Options After Pursuing B.A. in English
The Power of Data: How BSc (H) Economics with Data Science Prepares you for the Future
Top Liberal Arts Courses to Consider for Your Undergraduate Degree
The two-day event, being organised by student team ‘Fearless Falcons’, will be held on August 28-29 and will feature prominent leaders and students from across the country
Course Type
Congratulations on conquering your BA in English! You've honed your critical thinking skills, mastered the art of communication, and can analyze literature like a pro.
Please enter email address
19/09/2024
UPES School of Modern Media offers students deep learning in the field of new-age media.
12/08/2024
*
, industry-aligned curriculum and employment-relevant training in new media, thus equipping students with all the requisite skills to stay ahead of the curve.
25/07/2024
UPES Media and Entertainment
With an MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, you can power the field of information without fear or favour to give reliable news to the world.
10 career options with your Media and Entertainment degree
Planning, budgeting, strategizing, managing talent, signing contracts and executing projects end-to-end are some of the daunting tasks of a TV producer. TV producers travel around the world even before the actors! They coordinate and supervise all aspects of the production and over time, become ‘the voice’ that backs any show or talent.
5 tips to build confidence and self-esteem
Young interns dwell on the merits of working with social sector organisations
Amidst the Corona catastrophe, it is the journalists who have become “the only window to the world for a majority of its population,” states Professor KG Suresh, Dean, UPES School of Modern Media, commemorating the World Press Freedom Day
Media planning manager:
Liberal arts education is gaining popularity in India, offering a broad and interdisciplinary approach to learning.
Trending Post
With Srijan, UPES has taken yet another step towards making its students socially conscious by offering them a full-time summer internship program in the social sector
Digital media is the new form of media that has quickly become the favourite medium for advertisers. From Google search ads to websites, from social platforms to link clicks through emailers, the medium has a plethora of data, explaining consumer behaviour and helping brands make informed and targeted ads. The digital media analysts make sense of the data and share it with the digital media planners, buyers, content creators, corporate communication professionals and even designers.
‘Fake news is an oxymoron: If it is fake, it cannot be news’
The media landscape is ever-evolving and it is estimated that the media industry would require an employable workforce of 1.5 lakh per year for the next five years, with the majority of career opportunities emerging in the digital media and analytics space. Promoting the teaching and learning of media literacy to students is today more important than ever before due to the deluge of information on various media platforms. The internet generation needs to be taught to separate fact from fiction and verify content sources in this dynamic environment.
The media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market
How to master the art of effective conversation
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Tags
Submit
Today, traditional and new media are both vying for our attention. Television, print, film and radio are competing with digital, gaming, OTT platforms, and immersive media such as virtual reality and mixed reality. With the advent of 4G and smartphones in India, we have become the second largest online market globally, standing at 700 million users (Statista). With such a high number of ‘eyes’ consuming modern media, the demand for professionals adept at modern media is high. A degree in management will make the professionals skilled in managing large teams, bring in sales and devise new avenues for growth.
Select Course
of UPES.
Subscribe
Channel head:
By
Media strategists essentially decide what, where and who of an advertisement campaign. From analyzing data to understand the customer profiles to find the best-suited media to show the message, their jobs involve skill and creativity. No doubt, they are an essential member of any team.
09/01/2025
the
Top BA Specializations for 2025: Choosing the Right Path
Corporate communication:
Please Select Course Type
3 wonderful ways storytelling can help you to crack job interviews
It is time to get inspired at the ‘Leadership Conclave’ 2021
A subscriber email already exists.
As the name suggests, these folks deal with the way corporates communicate with the outside world and their employees. The stakeholders vary from C-level professionals to investors to interns. This is a lucrative field for those who are good in communication and managerial tasks.
UPES School of Modern Media prides itself on the state-of-the-art labs
13/08/2024
The core role of a media planner is to plan the campaign communication in an impactful way across different media. Hence, they ‘plan’ which media to use by analyzing the type of consumer interacting with a particular media, the type of communication the brand has, the budget allotted, the set target and the duration. Once all this is decided, they share their suggestions with the media buyer.
Why social media marketing is becoming pervasive across businesses
Founder and host of popular channel ‘The DeshBhakt’, Akash Banerjee gave a riveting talk about his experiences in more than a decade of journalism, how humour can amplify the impact of cold facts, and the questions students must ask themselves
Digital media analyst:
Marketing analyst:
Srijan Social Internship program of UPES will enable the students not only to become more self-aware, but motivate them to take effective actions for the betterment of the society
26/07/2024
Unlocking the human mind: Embarking on a journey with B.Sc. (H) Psychology and Behaviour
Last Name
Media strategist:
Believing in yourself and reaching out for your goals with gratitude in your heart can work miracles
Here’s why journalists matter to the world today more than ever before
Published 01/12/2020
TV producer:
It is often said that literature reflects or mirrors human life in general.
In today’s data-driven society, the ability to understand, interpret, and analyse data is pivotal to thriving and succeeding in the dynamic work industry.
Akash Banerjee gives a masterclass to UPES students on the power of satire
Please enter mobile number
MBA in media and entertainment
Within the gamut of courses in MBA, the preferred ones are marketing, human resource, international business and finance. However, the media and entertainment industry is becoming a favourite among students, due to the sudden proliferation and penetration of new media technologies in the market. The field is relatively new and there are many career choices for those who choose to earn a degree in the field of media studies.
UPES is building a network of experts for finding sustainable solutions to both local and global problems
-- None --
--None--
By a Correspondent
UPES Editorial Team
What is the difference between Arts, Liberal Arts and Liberal Studies Degrees?
The study of the human mind and behaviour, commonly known as psychology, presents numerous course options, leaving candidates often uncertain about the most promising path for their future.
What are social internships and why they matter
Please enter last name
The Exciting Career Scope After a B.A. in Economics!
Stories are an age-old way of imparting information and education across the world. Storytelling is an important and effective tool in the interview process.
They are specialists in understanding the type of content for every medium. From creating to publishing, media managers handle end-to-end content requirements across different media platforms. Some media managers are also capable of analyzing data and analytics, making them unique and in-demand professionals. A subset of this role is a social media manager, who essentially focuses on social media channels such as Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn.
Creative head:
20/08/2024
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
The term ‘Creative Head’ is vast and requires creative expression as a necessary skill. Some examples are designers, sound mixers, scriptwriters, set architects, post-production members and so on. Even though creativity cannot be formally taught, certain habits and practices that help one be more creative can be taught. Creative heads churn out stories, designs or music for any piece of communication – radio jingle, TV commercial or big-budget movies. A managerial degree propels them to climb up the ladder.
Email Address
Living Conversations, a unique life skill course offered by School for Life, UPES, empowers and enables learners to ideate, express, create, and collaborate in any given situation – professional or personal
Media manager:
Please select Course
Here’s a rundown of the ten career prospects that open for you with an MBA in Media and Entertainment:
23/08/2024
This is a more evolved role as marketing analysts are not just confined to marketing. They help strategize the communication across the consumer’s purchasing power and, ergo, their propensity to buy certain products or associate to specific communication.
UPES Admission Enquiry
In simpler terms, a channel manager or a channel head, is responsible for the health of a channel – financial, reputational and communicational. The role demands a blend of sales, marketing, analytics, communication, managerial and leadership skills. From deeply understanding the audience to knowing the strengths of a channel, from increasing audience viewership to stakeholder confidence, channel managers juggle many hats.
Related Articles
The role of Data, Analytics and Visualization in the world of media and entertainment
The power of words: How Literature courses cultivate critical thinking skills
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
privacy policy
In simple words, a media buyer buys media. This is the most crucial role in the media and entertainment industry. Consider a well-planned campaign with excellent communication and stunning visuals. If this communication does not reach the target audience because of no media platform or expensive media space, the whole campaign goes in vain. So, if a brand can buy time (at the cheapest rate) on primetime, on all national channels, then they will show their most important piece of communication in that slot. A media buyer ensures the brand buys this space at the cheapest rate, every single time.
The writer is a correspondent from the UPES editorial team
How UPES is contributing to SDGs
18/02/2025
17/09/2024