Modern Physics
How to Guess the correct answer in JEE
JEE Main Paper 1 has a total score of 300. There are a total of 75 questions, 25 from each subject. Out of these, 60 will be multiple-choice questions, and 15 will have a numerical response.
:
b. Leverage AI-driven platforms and apps like
For MCQ questions, each correct answer will be given +4 marks, while each erroneous response will be given -1. There will be no deductions for unanswered questions.
d. Find a group of like-minded aspirants. Expose you to different problem-solving methods.
Right-hand rule
+91
In the case of non-MCQ questions, each correct answer will receive +4 marks. There is no negative marking for wrong or unattempted questions.
First Name
Concepts of Physics by H.C. Verma:
, and
Understand matrix types, properties, and methods to calculate rank using echelon form.
IIT Mathematics by M.L. Khanna
Excellent for problem-solving and topic-wise practice.
Chemistry
Ideal for advanced problem-solving and conceptual clarity.
3. Practice with Previous Paper and Mock Tests:
Course Type
Inorganic Chemistry
JEE has two papers- JEE Mains and JEE Advanced. You just must qualify JEE Mains (entry-level exam) to be eligible for JEE Advanced. Your JEE Advanced score will determine the IIT, NIT, and other prestigious institutions you’ll get.
1. Get Thorough with the JEE Exam Syllabus and Pattern
Let us now move on to the section of what you can do to maximise your score. Here’s some top-notch skills to grab maximum marks:
Matrices and Determinants
Please enter email address
Joint Entrance Examination (IIT JEE)- Some Important Facts
(20-25% of the paper) and key concepts like:
In-depth coverage of organic reactions and mechanisms.
: Medium-priority topics.
This approach helps you predict potential future trends.
Pomodoro
How to Crack JEE Exam in the First Attempt?
*
the exam pattern, favourite IIT topics, number of questions, and more.
Categorize questions by their source topics.
Organic Chemistry by Morrison and Boyd:
c.
Physics:
Instead of “finish Thermodynamics this week,” break it into “understand the first law on Monday, practice numericals on Tuesday.”
Ideal for mastering calculus.
Conclusion
2. Choose the Right Resources
: Core topics with high weightage (Mechanics, Algebra, Organic Chemistry).
Written by the UPES Editorial Team
30-40 easy questions
Mathematics for JEE Advanced
Jee Main Paper 1 is a three-hour online exam covering Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics.
Faraday’s Law
Around
Understand patterns in concept frequency.
20%
Reviewing this dictionary daily can keep essential information fresh in your memory. The JEE is as much a test of your mental strength as your academic prowess. Believe in your preparation and trust the process. Success in JEE isn’t just about cracking an exam; it’s about evolving into a more disciplined, focused, and resilient individual. Good luck!
c. Adopt a strategy of focused study sessions of 50 minutes followed by a 10-minute break.
Questions are mostly direct, and concept based.
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
In today’s fast-paced global world and competition, it would not be wrong to say having a good career ensures a good lifestyle and one needs to stay focussed and be far-eyed to achieve one’s dreams. And that’s why some start preparing for JEE even two-three years ahead the exam!
Physics
sum and product of roots
How to crack JEE exam in 1st Attempt
There is NO shortcut to success! If you listen to the videos of toppers and people who have cracked JEE exam, they’ll all tell you they had begun their preparation early and followed a clear routine for their preparation.
Maintain a calm mindset and avoid panicking.
Instead of passively solving past papers, reverse-engineer them:
Focus on
Submit
can fetch
Select Course
Remember, if you wake up everyday without a plan and go to sleep without completing the target, cracking IIT-JEE might become too soon a very far-fetched dream for you.
of UPES.
Subscribe
a.
f. Listen to audiobooks or podcasts on conceptual topics. Flashcards for quick formula revisions.
If you feel you can ace IIT-JEE Exams without taking mocks and practising from JEE PYQs, you could not be more wrong! Not only do mocks and PYQs familiarize you with exam pattern, recurring question types, but also help you build your speed and accuracy.
Common mistakes you’ve made in mock tests.
How to Guess the Correct Answer in JEE Mains?
, helping you qualify for JEE Advanced.
the
Eliminate extreme options in MCQs. For example, if the question asks for a range, discard the smallest and largest.
JEE has negative marking, but educated guessing can sometimes save the day. Here’s how to minimize risks:
S-block
Classification of Elements and Periodicity in Properties
Divide Your Study Time
Gauss Law
110 marks
Please Select Course Type
5. Create a Study Plan and Stick to it
day. JEE Exam is
P-block
A subscriber email already exists.
Periodic Table
: Low-weightage topics you’re already comfortable with.
Focus heavily on
Identify and categorize questions into easy, moderate, and difficult; aim to solve the easy ones first.
and its applications.
A national level engineering exam, IIT JEE is conducted by NTA.
Shortcuts for repetitive calculations.
WolframAlpha, ChatGPT
Chemical Bonding
These quick tips will help you tailor your preparation in the direction of success and fruition.
Mathematics
cycle to each subject every day. For instance: Physics: 2 Pomodoros (90 minutes); Chemistry: 1 Pomodoro (45 minutes) and Math: 3 Pomodoros (135 minutes).
Understanding Physics by D.C. Pandey (Arihant Series):
Doing the revision in a way you’ve doing all your life won’t help. More challenging exams demand better revision strategies. While revising, create a personal “JEE Dictionary” containing:
Table of Contents:
Please enter mobile number
Electricity and Magnetism
tough but is conquerable. Remember, when there is a will, there is a way.
Quadratic Equations
: Great for practicing high-level problems.
Apply dimensional analysis in Physics to check unit consistency.
Strategy to Crack JEE in 1 month
for electric and magnetic fields.
to simplify problem-solving.
-- None --
With only 2 attempts, you need to make every attempt count! Read more to acquaint yourself with some study tips and strategies:
--None--
,
This ensures you’re optimizing your efforts for maximum score potential.
Focus on sections and topics where maximum marks can be scored.
Chemistry:
for IIT JEE exam. Choosing the
Published 20/12/2024
For one of the most challenging exams of the country and the world, we bring to you a blog to help you decide how to crack JEE Exam! In this blog, we’ll dive deep into tips and tricks that go beyond the usual “study hard” and “practice mock tests” advice, providing you with unique insights to enhance your preparation.
Key formulas and derivations.
UPES Editorial Team
left-thumb rule
to understand difficult concepts, solve problems. But remember to use these tools as learning aids, not shortcuts.
70%
Please enter last name
and
Maths:
Best for numerical problems and solid concept building.
right study material is critical for cracking the JEE. However, many go beyond the NCERT books. Here are the top three recommended books for each subject:
Here’s listed below some quick tips and tricks to help you ace the exam of your dreams:
Very soon we’ll have the JEE Exam knocking on our doors! Some will break those doors to enter colleges of their dreams while some will continue to stand still. With the right strategy, resources, and mindset, anyone can crack JEE Exam 2025, and that too in the first attempt!
a. Dedicate a
Problems in General Physics by I.E. Irodov:
Important Points for Scoring Good Marks in JEE Main
Problems in Calculus of One Variable by I.A. Maron
How to Crack JEE Exam: Important Tips & Tricks You Should Know
7. Revise Regularly
by R.D. Sharma
Manage time effectively and attempt questions wisely to minimize negative marking.
Redox Reactions
Prepare to eliminate incorrect options by understanding the direction of fields.
Staying positive and giving your best might sound like world’s most boring advice but nothing else matters if these two are not practised. Stay calm, confident, and trust your preparation as you approach the final
e. Take your mock tests seriously by simulating real exam conditions. Attempt an extra-long mock test session occasionally.
General Strategy
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
topics like
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
Photomath
Prioritize
Identify the thought process behind each question.
Email Address
Before we delve into the preparation strategy of JEE Exam- Mains and Advanced, let us bring you to some important information about JEE Exam you must know:
Mnemonics for tricky concepts.
: Comprehensive coverage of all topics.
syllabus of JEE exam 2025. Go through the chapters, the topics of Physics, Chemistry and Maths as thoroughly as possible. Visit JEE Mains PYQs and JEE Advance PYQs to know
Biot-Savart Law
Please select Course
This approach keeps you motivated and reduces procrastination.
.
(atomic and nuclear physics, relativity) which contributes to 10-15% of questions and can be solved using direct formulas.
UPES Admission Enquiry
Prioritize these as scoring and less time-consuming topics.
Essential for mastering inorganic chemistry concepts.
Use the formulas for
Imagine sitting for an exam and not knowing what they will be asking or where the questions will come from! Like any wise person, get a hold of
Concise Inorganic Chemistry by J.D. Lee:
Reverse Engineer previous year Papers
Important Tips for Scoring Good Marks
6. Divide your study time effectively:
Physical Chemistry by P. Bahadur:
JEE Advanced is also conducted online, with 2 papers, each of 3 hours. The pattern is a mix of MCQs and Numerical value-based questions from Physics, Maths and Chemistry.
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
A comprehensive book with clear explanations and practical problems.
b.
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
10%
Instead of making a broad 6-month or 1-year plan, focus on detailed weekly and daily plans. Break down your syllabus into micro-topics and dedicate 2-3 hours daily to them. For example:
How to Crack JEE in One Month? - Some Additional Tricks:
There are umpteen number of books in the market. Not all books are worth studying from. NCERT Books are the best reference books to prepare
privacy policy
4. Reverse-Engineer Previous Year Questions
Last Name
Carbonyl Compounds
Use logic to identify patterns in numerical sequences.