The entrepreneurial journey, however, is not easy. Despite the bottlenecks, there are start-ups from certain industries that have grabbed the bull by its horn and managed to become household names. Here is a look at the industries with the most flourishing start-ups, growing at an extraordinary pace.
7.1% of the total start-ups in the world are in the financial technology (fintech) sector. Given the speed, ease, cost-efficiency, and ability of financial services to target pain points and frustrations of consumers, the industry is popular among start-ups. In 2021, fintech companies worldwide raised $94.7 billion in funding. India is amongst the fastest growing fintech markets in the world with over 6,000 start-ups.
Popular start-ups:
Diana George
Entertainment played an important role in reducing the mental health impact of the pandemic. People turned to their screens for engaging content – spanning music, video, audio, and podcasts – and playing online games including e-sports, fantasy sports, and skill gaming. In 2020, there were 7.3 billion online game downloads in India (around 17% of the world’s total). OTT platforms in India too saw a surge and are expected to generate USD 7 billion in 2022.
Trending Post
UPES helps pioneering start-ups with incubation services such as networking activities, marketing, training for developing presentation skills, links to strategic partners, expert advice, and business training programs.
+91
OTT Platforms and Online Gaming
Aakansha Simra, a lab technician at UPES, founded W&W Organics with a friend to provide organic soap solutions for people with skin issues
First Name
Thank you for subscribing to UPES blogs.
Lifesciences, Healthcare and Pharma
Join our community for exclusive stories, insights, and updates
During the pandemic, even those who had refrained from shopping online joined the digital shopping bandwagon. The industry, which was already on an upward trajectory, witnessed record growth. Recent reports suggest that the value of e-Commerce sales was around USD 3.5 trillion, making it one of the most popular industries for new start-ups.
Please enter first name
Please enter mobile number
e-Commerce and Delivery-based Services
Success Stories of Entrepreneurs: 12 Most Inspiring Stories
A UPES student’s quest to make periods pain-free for women
The writer is a part of the UPES editorial team
Email Address
Mobile Number
Dream 11, 99 Games, Mech Mocha, Paytm first games, Pratilipi FM, Pocket FM, Khabri, Whistle Audio, VidPaq, The Visual House
Published 08/04/2022
According to the Indian Brand Equity Foundation, the healthcare market in India is expected to increase three-fold and reach USD 372 billion by 2022.
These industries have the most successful start-ups in India
Tags
Given a worldwide health emergency in play combined with increased health awareness, people are turning to innovative solutions to live a better life. Rising to the demand are start-ups, positioning themselves as an answer to consumer needs.
-- None --
Success stories galore from the start-up ecosystem at UPES
Submit
Our world is brimming with success stories of entrepreneurs, be it in the field of medicine, fashion, art, sports, or any.
Please select Course
--None--
This is one sector that especially boomed during the last two years, providing educational technology solutions to people when academic institutions could not function physically. Today, the industry complements traditional learning frameworks, offering alternatives to people from all walks of life. In 2021, edtech start-ups became the third most-funded sector, raising USD 4.7 billion.
UPES Admission Enquiry
of UPES.
Subscribe
₹10 lakh funding for UPES staffer’s organic soap start-up
Image credit: Unsplash
UPES alumnus sets up India’s first digital pension platform
Select Course
Byju’s, Unacademy, Vedantu, Toppr, CueMath, Culturealley, Doubtnut, Edukart, WizIQ, UpGrad, Merit Nation
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world.
Related Articles
By
Please enter email address
FinTech
the
PensionBox, founded in 2021 by UPES alumnus Kuldeep Parashar, attempts to customise pension planning for people according to their needs and specifications
UPES Editorial Team
Flipkart, Swiggy, Lenskart, Myntra, Zomato, Nykaa, Cleartrip, Licious, Blinkit, Dunzo
CRED, Paytm, Policy Bazaar, smallcase, LoanTap, Pine Labs, MobiKwik, Razorpay, Upstox, Khatabook, Lendingkart, ClearTax, Groww, PayU
Subscribe to UPES Blogs
EdTech
In the constantly and rapidly changing world of today, it has become vital for new businesses and start-ups to make a mark and stand out from their competition. Constant innovation can help start-ups thrive in a highly competitive atmosphere. If start-ups, entrepreneurship and business growth excite you, and you want to make a future in this space, now is the time to apply to the UPES School of Business. It offers an MBA in Start-up and Entrepreneurship with a specialisation in Business and Innovation, which will help you dominate the space with multidisciplinary learning and global exposure. Know more about the course here.
School of Business
Please Select Course Type
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
Dev Taneja, who is pursuing Electronics and Communication Engineering from UPES, co-founded ‘Anime Devta’ with Higmanshu Goswami, a student at UPES School of Design, to provide affordable anime merchandise to the youth
By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept
*
Course Type
Map My Genome, XCode Life Sciences, Oncostem Diagnostics, Practo, Netmeds, ImpactGuru, PharmEasy, Green Cure Wellness
privacy policy
Nuveni Raina, a second-year design student at UPES, has built a start-up ‘Vindyavasini’ to manufacture period pain relief belts. They are meant to alleviate cramps by giving out regulated heat and vibrations
A subscriber email already exists.
As of January 2022, more than 61,400 start-ups were recognised in India, according to the Economic Survey 2021-22 report. A record number of start-ups – 44 – reached unicorn status in 2021 in the country (a unicorn is a privately-held company with a market evaluation of USD 1 billion). Globally, there were over 590 unicorns as of 2021, with the majority based in the United States and China. ByteDance, the Chinese tech company that owns Tiktok, remains the highest-valued unicorn in the world at about USD 350 billion.
Please enter last name
Ekta Kashyap
Post-pandemic, there has been a major shift in the way businesses function. While the stage for business disruption was long set by technological advancements such as AI, automation, and big data analytics, the pandemic acted as a burning matchstick on a pile of fireworks.
Why is it Important to Train and Upskill Leaders?
UPES students build a brand to provide affordable anime merchandise
The word ‘start-up’ has almost become synonymous with disruption. From commute to wedding planning, education to hygiene, start-ups are being built on ideas that are changing how we live and, in the process, changing the world
Last Name