Make them experience real interview situations
Home
Inculcate confidence in students through practical learning
Employability Boot camps
Close
Personality Enhancement Program (PEP)
PSI helps students to understand and analyze their actual value in the market. They get an opportunity to be exposed to various situations that require immediate attention. It enables them to prepare in the areas which otherwise impede their chances of better placements. Subject matter experts help them to uncover the gap in the current level of technical competencies from the expected ones.
Students are able to identify their core strengths and communicate to employers the ways to unlock their true potential.
Soft Skill development through PEP & PSI
EDGE community page on UPES Learning Management System acts as a social tool for scheduling appointments for seeking personal career coaching and counselling. The goal of this approach is to develop new means of reaching out to and supporting the student community for a higher level of career adaptability in students and enhancing their employability skills.
List of students attended counselling sessions
program intends to groom students for better placement opportunities and enhance their employability prospects. Its goals are to:
Personal Counseling
- We at UPES have a well-developed team of professionals offering empathetic hands to lift students out of the pit of ambiguities, disappointments, confusion, and depression. Our full-time psychological counsellor adopts a holistic approach and factors in all aspects of a student’s life while providing group and one-to-one counselling. Difficulties in academics and learning are dealt with through faculty mentors. UPES is among one of the few universities that understand the student's need for a friend, guide, role model and mentor. The department of Student Engagement and Experience works closely with students to ensure a wide range of initiatives and activities for engaging them throughout the academic year.
Placement Selection Improvement (PSI)
Eligibility Criteria
Employability Boot Camps help students build confidence and make a seamless transition from the campus to the corporate world.
Career Counselling
UPES has a stellar Career Services department that not only provides exemplary services and prepares students for competitive examinations but also provides sector leadership in employability development through their training vertical, EDGE (Enhanced Development Growth & Enrichment). Activities such as discussions, blogging, personality profiling, competency mapping, domain knowledge tests, aptitude testing and job posting communication, that provide opportunities for career planning and skill enhancement for sustainable student outcomes, are also arranged.
Students connect with alumni to clear their doubts and dilemmas about the upcoming placement season.
Make them industry-ready professionals
The remedial classes are therefore conducted for the students whose performance is not up to the mark, i.e., for the students who secure less than 40% marks in the Mid-Term Examination.
Yoga & Meditation
- UPES lays emphasis on both the physical and mental health of its students. Located in the lap of nature, the beautiful serene campus offers a conducive atmosphere for the students to relax. We provide ample opportunities to the students to explore new ways of keeping fit and healthy. We believe that yoga and meditation are the perfect activities to foster physical and emotional calmness and well-being. Yoga and meditation classes at UPES have proven effective in improving confidence, concentration and memory, besides ensuring optimum physical health.
Capability Enhancement and
Capability Enhancement and Development Schemes
Development Schemes
These classes help the weak students to fill the gaps in the teaching-learning process which may be due to their slow learning pace, lack of understanding, lack of motivation, etc. and ultimately enhance their learning and skills, resulting in improvement in their performance.
- Considering the importance of supporting the students to overcome their learning difficulties and gain confidence and interest in learning, remedial classes are planned and organized each year.
Remedial Coaching
The vision of the Employability Boot camp (EB) is to launch students’ careers with work readiness workshops to improve employability prospects. Collaboration with the industry experts and alumni offers students access to real-world job recruitment processes, helps them understand the corporate scenario and manages their aspirations and job expectations. Students are empowered through workshops on resume building, writing job applications and cover letters and skills to clear the recruitment process. It prepares them to understand and accept constructive feedback on where to improve and how to forge their path in their careers.
Make them aware of their shortcomings in PI by sharing real-time feedback
is a flagship event of the Department of Humanities. It is organized in collaboration with Dale Carnegie. The three-day event is aimed at facilitating the transition for undergraduate and post-graduate students at two levels – transition from school to college and transition from college to industry. The experiential-based learning is focused on three skills, i.e., behavioural skills, people skills and presentation skills. These skills are honed via a series of engaging activities where a trainer is assigned to the batch in the capacity of a facilitator and a coach.
They rediscover that their passion for their domain will impact the world.