Committee
USJ, Sri Lanka
Best Practice Showcase:
Proven records of initiatives that have resulted in the development safety culture and reduction in accidents.
Commitee
Associate Dean, Research and Development
CORE EHS, India
Shri. Devendra Gill
Faculty
28
Co-Convenor
The program has resulted in improved safety knowledge, skills, and behaviour among employees.
Dr. Kuldeep Swarnkar
Dr. Ashish Karn
Exhibited exceptional skills and knowledge in the field of sustainability of the organisation.
Keywords:
Conference and Workshops
Bank Name : Yes Bank
Dr. Padmavathy V
Dr. Saswati Datta
Dr. Kanchan Bahukhandi
MEIN, India
MS word compatible file
Exhibited exceptional skills and knowledge in the field of safety management and regulations.
Fire Simulation and Modelling
Key Areas
DMRC, India
Makeen Energy India Pvt Ltd
Waste Valorization for Sustainable Development and Green Engineering
Purpose : Sustainability Fair – 3.0
Insightful discussions and knowledge-sharing sessions at the 4th International Sustainability Conference on Health Safety Fire and Environmental Advances (HSFEA-2023), with a focus on fostering collaborative solutions and addressing key issues related to health safety, fire management, and environmental sustainability in the workplace.
Sustainability Cluster Head
Occupational Health
CUT, Cyprus
Panelist Nomination:
Dr. Kuldeep K. Roy
Beneficiary Name : UPES
Program Committee Member
Mitsubishi Elevator India Private Limited
Biological Advancement
Nominate yourself or your organization for various award categories that celebrate Your & yours Organization outstanding contributions.
Demonstrated commitment to creating a safe work environment and fostering a safety-first culture within their organization.
Note:
We accept the submission of high-quality papers describing original and unpublished results of conceptual, constructive, experimental and theoretical work or research in progress related to the area as mentioned in the brochure themes. The accepted paper will be published by reputed international publishers (such as Taylor & Francis or CRC or Springer).
Jubilant Generics Limited
Dr. Xiaofeng Yang
Dr. Ankit Kumar Yadav
Dr. Balendu Giri
Circular Economy
Event Secretary
Shri. Manish Madaan
Registration Fees (INR)
IITB, India
Preferably more than 5 years but exceptional applicants will be considered.
Sustainability Cluster, School of Advanced Engineering
March, 2025
Dr. R. Selvasembian
Sustainable construction
Disaster & Industrial Risk
Dr. Bikrama Prasad Yadav
PU, India
Organisational award Category
View
Dr. S.M. Tauseef
Dr. G.C. Mishra
Occupational Health and Hygiene
facilities
Dr. Eldon R. Rene
SRM, India
Sustainability excellence
Organisation has developed and implemented a groundbreaking safety technology, process, or solution that has improved workplace safety significantly.
Date
President
Home
Achievements in reducing the emissions of the organisation.
Notification of Acceptance/Rejection
50
Process & Nuclear Safety
Having less than 5 years of experience
Important Dates
NKU, China
Full Paper Submission
Wastewater Surveillance
8 April 2025
Format:
1,200
Steering Committee Members
Dr. Rajat Nag
Ergonomics & Human factor
Energy from Biomass, Water, Waste
Mr. Surendar Varadharajan
For Foreign Participants
10
Trident Group
Safety Innovative Practitioner of the Year (Male and Female)
Dr. Nilanjana Banerjee
LUT, Finland
300-500 words
Events & Activities
9 April 2025
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo
5
Click Here
Achieved measurable environmental improvements, such as reduced carbon emissions, energy or water conservation, waste reduction, or restoration of natural habitats.
Events Details And Registration
100
Abstract submission deadlines
Dr. Ashwini K. Nangia
Explosion
ESG & Legal Framework
Award Categories
leadership in safety, phycological safety.
For Indian Participants
Co-Chair
Please submit the abstract to the Organizing Secretary on this email ID:
Glimpse from Previous Sustainability Fair
250
Branch IFSC Code : YESB0000115
Individual award category
Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure
Young Sustainability Professional of the year (Male and female)
Alumni Event Highlights & Opportunities:
Implemented continuous improvement strategies that have elevated safety standards and performance above industry norms.
NCL, India
The articles will be accepted only when plagiarism is less than 15% excluding references.
Dr. Dhruv Kumar
Having less than 5 years of experience.
High-rise buildings fire
Vice Chancellor
Dr. Madhuben Sharma
Close
Advancement in Safety Technology
Dr. Subhajit Basu
UCD, Ireland
Paper Submission
Model Display
Industry
Prof. S.A. Abbasi
Convenor
Registration deadline for authors:
Dr. Sanjay Bhutani
Sustainability Fair 3.0
Previous Award Winners
Advancement & current trends in Health Safety, Fire and Environmental
Register Now
Seize the opportunity to present your innovative best practices sharing your insights with a global audience.
Sponsors
The Mega Alumni Connect is an opportunity to bring M Tech-HSE & Civil Engineering and B Tech- Fire, Safety & Civil Engineering alumni together with the aim of- Faculty- Alumni networking, discussion of career progression, visibility of programs, connecting existing students and their mentorship and feedback on improving curriculum based on industry needs.
Dr. S. Gajalakshmi
Dr. Mahesh Patil
Maintained zero accident records or reduced the accidents at his or her workplace
Prof. Jingchun Tang
Previous Sustainability Fair Reports
Providing a platform for discussing and addressing specific challenges or issues within a particular industry or field.
1. All the participants have to submit the registration fees through the bank details available on the website and conference brochure (Non-Refundable).
Sharing case studies and success stories that highlight effective strategies and lessons learned in the field of Health, Safety, Fire, Environment, and Sustainability.
Safety Innovative Practitioner of the year (Male and female)
Career opportunities & growth in HSFEA.
Advisory Committee
Prof. Madhu G
Safety Professional of the Year Award (Male and Female)
Days
IUPUI, USA
Dr. Jayasankar Variyar
Hydrogen & Electrical Safety
Paragraph:
Student
Sustainability Excellence Award
Environment
10 April 2025
SEU, China
Pro Vice Chancellor
View All Members
Objective
More than 5 years of experience but exceptional applicants will be considered.
Dr. Suvendu Manna
Sustainability Cluster
Providing a platform for experts, researchers, and practitioners to share their knowledge, research findings, innovative ideas, products, and services with a wider audience.
Mr. Abhishek Banerjee
Sustainability Fair 3.0 is set to surpass its predecessors by fostering a larger global network. With anticipated participation from over 1,500 delegates, including policymakers, industry leaders, and international researchers, the event aims to drive innovation and collaboration across various sustainability domains. Featuring keynote addresses from renowned sustainability pioneers and support from returning sponsors such as Adani, Reliance, and Springer, it promises an unparalleled exchange of knowledge. The fair will also host groundbreaking panel discussions, exhibits, and workshops, alongside the presentation of 300+ research papers and expanded partnerships with Q1 journals. This event is poised to redefine sustainability benchmarks, further enhancing UPES’s stature as a global hub for sustainability.
Safety Professional of the year (Male and female)
Waste to Energy
Sustainability Fair 1.0
Bio Safety & Bio Security
Collaboration and Sponsorship:
Nanotechnology
Green Building
Pre-Conference Activties
materials
th
Prof. Manish Kumar
Fire Suppression
Registration Fees
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Damia B. Culleres
Reunite, Reconnect, Retreat & Rejuvenate
The legacy of the Sustainability Fair series, starting with the inaugural 2022 event graced by the Governor of Uttarakhand, Lt. Gen. (Retd.) Gurmit Singh has firmly established it as a beacon of sustainability innovation. Sustainability Fair 1.0 focused on "Safe, Resilient, and Sustainable Cities & Communities," bringing together over 1,000 participants, including international scientists from Spain, Denmark, and Sri Lanka, alongside national leaders such as the Cabinet Minister of Uttarakhand. Prominent stakeholders such as Punjab National Bank, DST-SERB, and Springer as well as American Chemical Society (ACS) supported the event. Sustainability Fair 2.0 raised the bar even higher, engaging more than 1,200 delegates, showcasing 283 research presentations, and featuring over 50 organisational participants, with keynote addresses by global leaders like Padma Bhushan Dr Anil Joshi. These successes, driven by impactful collaborations and groundbreaking discussions, demand an even more remarkable third edition.
Dr. Deepak Dubal
UKPCB, India
To provide exhibitors from both industry and academiawith a unique opportunity to showcase theirinnovations, research, products, and services to adiverse and influential audience at the 4th InternationalSustainability Conference on Health Safety Fire andEnvironmental Advances (HSFEA-2023), with a focuson fostering collaborations, enhancing brand visibility,and contributing to the advancement of knowledge andsolutions in the fields of health safety, firemanagement, and environmental sustainability.
Eligibility and application Norms
Award Ceremony & Valedictory Session
Payment details
Proven record in terms of impact in the field of EHS.
Patron
Day 0
Eureka Forbes Limited
Tech Secretary
Promising startup of the year
Shri. S. Fulari
Shri. Pankaj Singh
Poster and paper presentations
Networking Opportunities
Emerging tools & technology for enhancement of safety & sustainability.
AU, Denmark
Dr. Dharmendra Kumar Gupta
Previous Awards Winners
E-Vehicle fire
About
Safety leadership
Organizing Secretary
Building on the overwhelming response to HSFEA 2016, HSFEA 2018, HSFEA 2020, and HSFEA 2023, the Sustainability Cluster, UPES School of Advanced Engineering, is organising the 5th International Sustainability Conference on Health, Safety, Fire, and Environmental Advances (HSFEA-2025) during 9-10 April 2025. under the umbrella of Sustainability Fair 3.0 The theme of HSFEA 2025 is “Innovating for a Resilient Future.” Health, Safety, Fire, and Environmental Advances aim to foster a multidisciplinary platform for researchers, professionals, policymakers, and industry experts to share insights, exchange knowledge, and explore advancements in promoting global well-being. With a focus on the interplay between health, safety, fire management, environmental sustainability, and related disciplines, this conference seeks to uncover innovative approaches, emerging technologies, and collaborative strategies to address the challenges faced by communities worldwide.
Visibility and Exposure
Developed and implemented continuous improvement strategies that have elevated the industry's sustainability standards.
Alumni can explore collaborative ventures and sponsorship opportunities, fostering mutual growth.
Geoenvironmental Engineering
Adani Cements
Biotechnology
Accompanying Person
Risk
Mr. Amit Narayan Kapur
Keynote Lectures
Day 2
Innovative Startup of the Year Award
Dr. Chistian Sonne
Bringing together professionals, industry leaders, and like-minded individuals from various sectors and backgrounds to foster collaboration, partnerships, joint projects, and business opportunities.
Mr. Rahul Nainwal
Stand a chance to become a panelist, contributing your expertise to thought-provoking discussions.
Wildland Fires and Other Large Outdoor Fire
Material Flammability and Toxicity
+91 7017224677
Award Ceremony
Best Innovative practices in safety
Organazing Secretary
Risk Assessment and
Sustainability professional of the year (Male and female)
Er. S. Sudalai
3-5
Load More
Implemented innovative sustainability initiatives, economic viability and social responsibility.
Legal aspects of Health Safety & Environment
Prof. Virender Sethi
Bank Account : SB – 011594600000224
Environmental excellence (Male and female)
Prof. S. Babich
Dr. Ashok Pandey
Air Quality Management and Monitoring
IFE, India
Dr. Ranjit G. Gurav
Innovative & sustainable approaches to address global challenges in HSFEA.
Sustainability Initiatives that have proven records of creating impact in society and set standards for other organisations.
Dr. Tejraj Aminabhavi
Contribution to Sustainability
Safety in automation
Facilitate engagement with regulatory bodies and policymakers to address industry-specific regulatory challenges and explore opportunities for improvement.
IHE, NL
Dr. Piyush Kuchhal
Address : Ground Floor, 56, Rajpur Road, Dehradun
Dr. Meththika V
Dr. Abhishek Nandan
Dr. R. P. Singh
Psychological Safety at Work
rsilori@ddn.upes.ac.in
2. No Discount will be applicable for On-Spot registration.
Recognition and Awards:
Carbon Footprint
Behavioural Based Safety
Normal
Emergency Prep. & Response
KU, S. Korea
ITESM, Mexico
Award
Font:
Best safety communicator
Dr. Sunil Rai
Mega Alumni Connect
Mankind Pharma
UoN, UK
Safety Leadership of the Year award (Male and Female)
Dr. Michalis Koutinas
Proven records of environmental initiatives that have made significant achievements.
Dr. P.M. Dhakate
Exhibitors
Participant Category
Dr. Amit Bhatnagar
Environmental Excellence Award (Male and Female)
The Sustainability Cluster is a union of two former School of Advanced Engineering departments, namely Civil Engineering and Health, Safety & Environment Engineering. It offers NBA-accredited undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programmes and comprises a professionally qualified faculty team with national and international experience in academia and industry. The Cluster boasts state-of-the-art infrastructure, including advanced laboratories, a fire training ground, cutting-edge software, and other facilities. Students actively participate in live and sponsored projects funded by the government and consultancy assignments. It hosts international and national student chapters such as the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), the American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP), the Fire & Security Association of India (FSAI), and the GreenUp Club. Additionally, it prepares students for certifications in professional courses such as NEBOSH, IOSH, and Lead Auditor (9001, 14001, 45001, 17025) and Swayam NPTEL courses.
Full-length paper should be within 12 pages (up to 5000 words) including illustrations
Themes
KLETU, India
IITR, India
Wastewater Treatment
Safety
Developed initiatives that have set standards for other organisations.
Been in a leadership role in the organisation.
Made a significant contribution to the organization's safety performance through effective safety planning, training, and implementation.
3,000
Showcase Innovations ( Your latest products,technologies, research findings, and solutions )
+91 8126516911
Dr. Durgaprasad Panday
Environmental Pollution
No age limit for an exceptional applicant.
Abstract
Dr. U.S. Chhillar
Made a significant contribution to the organization's sustainability performance through effective strategies and methods
Fire
Panel Discussion
Environment health safety & its connection with corporate social responsibility.
Dr. Yung-Hun Yang
Reliance Retail Limited
Smart cities & Smart transportation
Objectives
Margin:
UMT, Malaysia
Registration Fees (USD)
Individual Award Category
Events
Bioprocesses and Bioproducts from Waste
Safety Culture in Healthcare
Swift Code : YESBINBB
Dr. Ram Sharma
Abstract:
Dr. Vivek Aggarwal
Safety Excellence
Safety Excellence Award
Dr. J K Pandey
Steel Authority of India Limited - Bokaro Plant
20
Dr. Vijaysekhar Chellaboina
Prowaste Concepts
Best Safety Communicator
Oral and Poster Presentations
Prof. Bhaskar Bhatt
Developed and implemented a groundbreaking safety technology, process, or solution that significantly improved workplace safety.
Dr. Rahul Silori
Dr. Devesh K. Avasthi
Environmental Excellence Award
Contact
Dr. Pankaj Kumar
Registration
Schedule
anandan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Expectations from Sustainability Fair 3.0
Enhance your organization's reputation andcredibility
Best Innovative Practices Award
Dr. Sunita Varjani
Implemented innovative safety initiatives that have resulted in a significant reduction in accidents and incidents.
Having more than 5 years of experience but exceptional applicant can also be considered.
ICRA, Spain
Dr. Ranjeet K. Brajpuriya
The innovation has demonstrated measurable positive impacts on safety performance and can be scalable and replicable in other industries.
Day 1
Bioremediation
April 9 - 10, 2025
Adani, India
The acceptable word range for the abstract is 300-500 words, including 3 to 5 keywords at the bottom
Glimpse of previous events
Environmental excellence
Mega Alumni Connect - Reunite, Reconnect, Retreat & Rejuvenate
Inauguration and Welcome Address
Branch Code : 000115
QUT, Australia
Dr. Tabassum Abbasi
ASK EHS
Or online submission via submission link in the Registration Tab.
Sustainability Fair 2.0
Best Safety Communicator Award
More than 10 years of experience.
Chair
Developed and executed an innovative and comprehensive safety training program that effectively addresses the specific needs of the workforce.
Resilient built facilities
Market Expansion & business opportunities
Double spaced
Start Up of the Year Award (EHS Business)
Please send in a brief biography and email IDs together with the abstract.
Safety Leadership of the year (Male and female)
Young sustainability professional of the year (Male and female)
Shri. J.K. Anand
Registration Fees and Bank Details
Benefits for Exhibitors
Construction Safety
SCUT, China
Formatting and paper length limit should be as follows:
hsfea@ddn.upes.ac.in
Young safety professional of the year (Male and Female)
Management
Dr. Shu Shiung Lam
Supporting evidence like data, case studies, or environmental audits is typically required.
IOT and AI in construction
12-Point, Times New Roman
CUSAT, India
Bank Details
The start-up has shown exceptional growth, innovation, and market penetration in a relatively short period.
DFS, India
Resource recovery from E-Waste
Sustainability Excellence
Organisational Award Category