University of Central Lancashire
Lawrence Lu
Bidholi Campus, UPES
Dean Phani Tetali
Events & Activities
View all Events
Home
Sponsors of the Event
IITB Mumbai
Founder of Exofense,
Close
Presentations
The conference provided an excellent platform for researchers, practitioners, and students to share their latest advancements,
 insights, and experiences in the broad spectrum of HCI.
Prof. Venkatesh Rajamanickam
Location
Exhibitions- Arts Track, Start Up Track
Student Design Consortium
India HCI 2023
iHUB and HCI Foundation
Somjit Amrit
Over the course of the conference, participants engaged in thought-provoking panel discussions, attended enlightening keynote sessions, and explored diverse tracks such as Arts, Women and HCI, Start-Up, and more. The event facilitated knowledge exchange through courses, workshops, industry case studies, and presentations, showcasing the latest advancements in HCI.
Upcoming Events
Dean, School of Design,
Attendees
UPES
Eligibility Criteria
A schedule of Daily Posting was created by School Marketing Team with support from Marketing Interns. Gathering information on Highlights of the event with Instagram stories, posts, promos and video bytes of keynote speakers. A close watch was kept on Images and content being floated about India HCI to ensure brand guidelines are met in each post by students and faculties. Published Daily posts, Reels on SOD’s school Insta handle. We went Live on Insta from UPES official handle, publish stories about India HCI, Keynote speaker’s speech and interaction with students, faculty and mentors, images on student consortium presentations.
Showcase Track
CEO,
The conference theme is “HCI for Enabling Creativity” and aims to initiate dialogues, debates, and discussions that enable synergies between Creativity and HCI. We invite authors to present bold ideas and research that further expand the boundaries of HCI research.
Student Research Consortium
Posters & Demos
Child, Human Computer Interaction,
November 23-25, 2023
Summary
Life@UPES
School of Design
Talks/Sessions Keynote Speakers
Vice President,
Gallery
Full Papers Track
Panel Discussions- women in HCI
ACM In cooperation
Prof. Janet Read
iHUB and HCI Foundation, IIT Mandi
HCI Professional Association Of India
San Jose, California
Dr. Balvinder Singh
Industry case studies and Presentations
See on Maps
India HCI 2023, a premier Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) conference hosted by the School of Design (SOD) at UPES Dehradun, successfully concluded its three-day event from November 23rd to 25th, 2023. With a remarkable 14-year history, the conference has been instrumental in advancing Indian HCI on the global stage, maintaining high publication standards through ACM Digital Library and the SCOPUS indexed database.
Samsung Electronics
Activities during the Event