Dr. Sanjay Bahl, Director General, CERT-In, MeitY
Researchers and Professionals around the world
Dr. Ajay Kumar, Director, IRDE DRDO
Events & Activities
Audience
Home
Siddharth Golecha, Quantum Support Engineer at IBM
Dr. Ram Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, UPES
A key focus of the conference was nurturing young researchers, achieved through inspiring expert speeches and engaging technical sessions, paving the way for innovation and progress in the domain.
Close
School of Computer Science
The objective of ICMLDE 3.0 is to provide a platform to discuss the need for advanced innovation in the fields of Machine Learning and Data Engineering by showcasing high-quality research and fostering global collaboration among researchers, academicians, professionals and industry leaders worldwide. The conference aims to advance cutting-edge innovation, inspire actionable insights, and nurture young researchers, thereby shaping the future of technology and society. It seeks to highlight UPES's vision as a hub for research excellence and impactful solutions.
Location
Workshops by
Guests of Honour
Prof. Robertas Damaševičius, Kaunas University of Technology
UPES School of Computer Science, in collaboration with Elsevier, the University of Dayton (USA), and Providence University, hosted the 3rd edition of the International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering (ICMLDE 3.0) during November 28-29, 2024. The 3rd edition continues the tradition of academic distinction established by previous iterations of ICMLDE, which have seen participation from over 3,800 contributors across 47 countries. ICMLDE 3.0, sponsored by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and IBM, is structured around four key tracks: Machine Learning Foundation, Deep Learning and Data Engineering, Machine Learning and Data Engineering, and Applications.
Dr. Tanmoy Chakraborty, IIT Delhi
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Amit Sachan, Jio
ICMLDE 3.0 successfully fostered meaningful discussions and collaborations on global challenges and emerging Artificial Intelligence and Data Engineering opportunities. With over 400 research papers presented, the conference highlighted diverse areas within the fields of Machine Learning and Data Engineering. The accepted papers have been published in the Procedia Computer Science journal by Elsevier, ensuring global accessibility and recognition.
Dr. Vijayan K. Asari, University of Dayton
Engineering students from UPES
Guests
Objective
Dr. Arun Kumar, NIT Rourkela
Multi Acitivity Centre (MAC) Auditorium, UPES Bidholi Campus
November 28-29, 2024
Chief Guests
Gallery
Dr. Bernard Fong, Providence University
Professor Peter Han Joo Chong, Auckland University of Technology
About
Dr. G. G. Md. Nawaz, Bradley University, USA
L. Venkata Subramaniam, IBM Quantum Lead
ICMLDE 3.0
3rd International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering
Speakers