Guest of Honour
Events & Activities
Audience
Home
UPES School of Law, in collaboration with the Uttarakhand Forest Department and Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board, hosted the International Conference on New Paradigms in Environmental Sustainability and Energy Laws from September 20-21, 2024. The conference featured insightful discussions on pressing environmental issues such as climate change, renewable energy, and environmental governance. It aimed to provide a platform for legal experts, policymakers, academics, and students to explore innovative legal frameworks and sustainable practices that align with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Distinguished legal professionals, environmental advocates, and academicians from various national and international institutions participated, including representatives from 66 Indian institutes and 6 foreign organizations. The conference served as an important venue for sharing research, promoting collaboration, and addressing complex legal and ethical concerns related to environmental sustainability. The diverse participants contributed through research presentations and panel discussions, facilitating a broad exchange of ideas. Sessions also provided participants with valuable insights on how technological advancements can be leveraged to solve complex environmental problems, while also addressing the legal and ethical concerns associated with these innovations.
Dr. Abhishek Sinha, Dean, School of Law, UPES
Close
Location
Prof. (Dr.) Shikha Dimri, Associate Dean, School of Law, UPES
Guests of Honour
Students from UPES School of Law
Dr. Pradeep Mehta, State Head, UNDP Uttarakhand
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Shri Subodh Uniyal, Hon'ble Minister of Forest, Uttarakhand Forest Department
The conference drew participation from 66 Indian Institutes including National Law Universities, 6 foreign institutes and organisations including representatives from Provincial Health Services Authority, Canada, NSW Fair Trading, Australia and European Institute on Economics and the Environment, Europe, and advocates and judicial officers representing 7 different high courts across India.
Dignitaries from Uttarakhand Forest Department and Pollution Control Board
Objective
The conference featured dynamic panel discussions and interactive sessions on topics including environmental governance, renewable energy laws, climate justice, and legal compliance in a rapidly evolving world and brought together several environmental experts including bureaucrats, academicians, advocate on record, social activists and practising advocates from top law firms. Dr. Dhananjai Mohan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (HoFF), Shri. Umesh Dwivedi, Member of Legislative Council, Former President at Divine Disaster Management Inquiry Committee, Uttar Pradesh Mr. Anoop Nautiyal (Founder of Social Develop for Communities (SDC) Foundation), Ms. Pragya Parijat Singh (Advocate-on-record, Supreme Court of India, Member Executive SCAORA, Founder of Pranutan Legal), Dr. Ankur Kansal (Environment Engineer, Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board), and Mr. Aman Rab (Legal Advisor to DGP, Pollution Board, Municipal Corporation, SEIAA, RERA and Special Counsel for Govt. of Uttarakhand) were among the many others who graced the conference with their presence.
Chief Guests
International Conference on New Paradigms of Environmental Sustainability and Energy Laws
Auditorium, School of Law, UPES Kandoli Campus
Gallery
About
September 20-21, 2024
Padma Bhushan Awardee Dr. Anil Prakash Joshi, Founder of the Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization (HESCO)
Prof. (Dr.) M.K. Ramesh, Chair Professor, Urban Poor and the Law, Government of India
The primary goal of the conference was to address the urgent need for sustainable legal frameworks to combat environmental degradation and promote renewable energy practices. The conference aimed to foster discussion on climate justice, biodiversity conservation, and legal compliance in the face of evolving environmental challenges. It also emphasized community-led conservation efforts and collaboration between law, policy, and technology to create long-lasting environmental solutions.
Speakers