Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Professor
Dr. Mittal is Ph.D. in finance from University of Petroleum & Energy Studies (UPES). His education qualification includes both M. Com & MBA in Finance. He has also cleared ICWAI (I). He is throughout first class during his academic duration.  Dr. Mittal believes in tackling numbers in accounting and finance with his innovative approaches. He likes to prepare financial models for companies in lucid way on excel.
Close
Faculty
Petroleum Accounting I Corporate Finance I Corporate Valuation I Financial Planning I Portfolio Management
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
amittal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Mittal’s teaching philosophy is inspired by understanding accounting and finance from the holistic perspective of “business”. He emphasizes the understanding of core concepts and their application in the real world. His teaching pedagogy includes quizzes, flipping the classroom, case studies, and surprise tests which ensure that students understand the real essence of business from all perspectives.
Dr. Mittal has various research papers and case publications, both in Scopus indexed and ABDC List in the field of risk mitigation and valuation in the Oil & Gas sector. He has also published two books on the fundamentals of finance and project finance. He has also participated in various international conferences where he has presented his research on topics like Knowledge Management, Branding, Equity Returns, IPO, GST, and Performance Evaluation of Mutual Funds, to name a few. In addition to this, he has delivered his expertise to the industry in conducting various training programs on accounting and finance to corporates like HPCL, IOCL, OIL, BAPEX, NDPL & MPVVLTD. He is also a member of Indian Accounting Association (IAA).
Ankur Mittal
Dr. Mittal has teaching experience of 19 years and industry experience of 6 months in preparing financial statements for an oilfield manufacturing company.
Profile Summary
School of Business
Contact
Dr. Mittal teaches Accounting for Managers & Financial Management in semester 1 & semester 2 respectively for postgraduate programs in the first year. Besides, he takes security analysis and portfolio management as compulsory paper in the second year of MBA and electives like corporate valuation and advanced accounting, along with smart money management. His expertise lies in teaching domain-tailored courses like petroleum accounting and finance. His area of interest includes wealth management and financial planning which adds value to the course he teaches.
Teaching Philosophy