Research Interests
Dr. Ghosh’s primary research interest is in Wireless Sensor Networks, IoT and Machine Learning.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Kaushik has been recognised by MSME, Government of India, for course design in Industrial IoT. He has been the recipient of Best Paper awards at various conferences.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Dr. Ghosh worked at St. Thomas’ College of Engineering and Technology, Mody University of Science and Technology, and DIT University. In these institutions, he performed the duties of program coordinator and designed courses for new programs. He has worked in the internal accreditation committees of NAAC and NBA. Moreover, he helped his department to gain ABET accreditation for a period of six years, working as the co-chairperson of the committee, during his tenure at Mody University.
Scholarly Activities
kghosh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Ghosh has taught subjects like Operating Systems, Distributed Computing, Database Management System, Computer Networks, to name a few.
Profile Summary
Dr. Ghosh has delivered keynote lectures at a number of national and international conferences of high repute, along with being on the review committee for different international journals. He has conducted sessions organized by UGC for faculty development in different engineering colleges. In 2021, he was awarded by MSME and IID, Government of India for designing a course on Industrial IoT. A keen researcher, Dr. Ghosh spends his time mentoring his students in authoring/inventing research papers, book chapters, copyrights, designs and patents. Dr. Ghosh has authored more than 40 research papers to date and has six designs and 4 copyrights granted to his name. He has three utility patents published as well.
Dr. Kaushik Ghosh has been in academics for the last 21 years. He did his B.E. from Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology, Majitar. Thereafter, he completed his M.Tech and Ph.D. from Jadavpur University, Kolkata. The domain of his Ph.D. work was Wireless Sensor Networks. He has a number of research papers published to his name, in reputed international journals and conferences, of which some have bagged the best paper award as well. Dr. Ghosh has designed a course on IoT for MSME, Government of India. He has published numerous book chapters, copyrights, designs, and patents. His area of research is Wireless Sensor Networks, IoT and Machine Learning.
Dr. Kaushik has won many awards for his work. He was awarded Lifeway Tech India's Best Senior Researcher Award for 2022 as well as Fox Story India's Aspiring Authors and Researchers Award, 2022.
Contact
Kaushik Ghosh
Dr. Kaushik Ghosh is a reflective practitioner. He believes pedagogical skills are to be honed in an iterative manner. According to him, an educator must be receptive enough to understand the needs of the new-age learners, as the teaching-learning process has undergone a paradigm shift in the post-pandemic era. A teacher has to be a learner, before anything else. He believes that constructive feedback received from students and fellow professionals is a great way to attain effective pedagogical skills.
Teaching Philosophy