Research Interests
Dr. Kumar believes that the role of a teacher is not simply being an instructor, but it is about being a facilitator, a guide who shares knowledge and empowers his pupils. He is always available for his students, and he motivates his students to learn and discuss new things.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
He has cleared Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) and University Grants Commission National Eligibility Test (UGC NET) in Computer Science and Engineering Discipline. He was awarded an institute assistantship/scholarship during his stay at IIT Roorkee.
Scholarly Activities
Artificial Intelligence, Information Retrieval, Search Engines, Text Mining and Natural Language Processing.
In the past few years, Dr. Kumar has taught several different courses at the UG level in computer science and engineering discipline. These are Artificial Intelligence, Compiler Design, Search Engine Optimization, Data Communication and Computer Networks, Data Mining and Data Warehousing, Problem Solving and Fundamentals of Programming using C.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kumar has mentored multidisciplinary teams of students on various projects. Recently a team has developed focused Web Crawler Projects under his supervision. Under his guidance, a team of four students secured second position in the final round of Smart India Hackathon 2020. He has also completed Innovation Ambassador Training from MoE's Innovation Cell.
Dr. Kumar has been working as an Assistant Professor-SS in the School of Computer Science at UPES, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India since August 2022. He has completed his Ph.D. at IIT Roorkee, which is the oldest and one of the best technical institutions in India. He has published several research articles in SCI / SCOPUS journals and conferences.
Profile Summary
Before joining UPES, Dr. Kumar taught for 7 years in public and private technical institutions. He worked as Assistant Professor (2018-2021) at the Institute of Engineering and Technology, Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar University Agra, under the Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) Phase-III, initiated by the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India. He also worked as an Assistant Professor in the CSE Department at IIMT Meerut, U.P.
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Contact
ram.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Ram Kumar
Teaching Philosophy