Dr. Shailey earned a Gold Medal during her post-graduation and is a qualified CSIR-NET in Chemical Sciences. She completed her Ph.D. in 2005 at C.C.S. University, Meerut, with a specialization in organometallic compounds. With over 23 years of experience, she has extensive expertise in waste management, bioenergy, catalysis, and heterogeneous catalysis. Dr. Singhal has contributed to 3 projects funded by various government bodies and supervised 4 Ph.D. scholars in her specialized areas. Her commitment to education goes beyond research. Dr. Shailey was instrumental in establishing the National Service Scheme (NSS) at UPES, and her contributions have been recognized by the Government of Uttarakhand. So far, she has authored 58 research papers, 10 books, and 7 book chapters, and holds 5 patents.
Dr. Singhal's dedication to teaching and research has earned her several prestigious awards and grants, including Most Devoted Teacher by UPES (2008-2009), Dedicated Service Award (2010), Contribution in Research and Outstanding Teaching by UPES (2013), Young Scientist Mentorship Award by Science Academies, India (2020), Star Achiever in the area of Waste Management by Institute of Green Engineers (2021), Best Teacher's Award (2021) by Divya Himgiri and UCOST, and Swachhta Champion award by Nagar Nigam, Dehradun (2023) for her contributions towards waste management strategies. She has also received grants totalling over 1.5 Crore in her R&D projects from IOCL (R&D), Faridabad, and MNRE, New Delhi.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Close
As an organic chemist, Dr. Singhal has taught various courses on Organic Chemistry to undergraduate and postgraduate students, providing hands-on experience in conducting experiments. She has also taught the Engineering Chemistry course to B.Tech students.
Faculty
Dr. Singhal believes in embracing newer approaches and uses outcome-based techniques in the classroom. She explores experimental teaching methods, such as project-based learning, videos, virtual labs, and synchronous/asynchronous techniques. Her aim is to foster logical and analytical aptitude in her students to help them understand and solve problems effectively.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Shailey Singhal started her career as a lecturer in a post-graduate college in Muzaffarnagar and joined UPES as a lecturer in 2005. Over the years, she has undertaken various academic, research, and administrative responsibilities. Among her notable roles at UPES are Chairperson of the research initiative 'RISE,' now known as 'SHODH,' Head of the Department of Chemistry, and Assistant Dean (SOE) for the Academic Planning and Monitoring Department.
Courses Taught
Dr. Singhal's research interests span across heterogeneous catalysis, bioenergy, waste management, and wastewater treatment.
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Shailey Singhal
Dr. Singhal has actively engaged in multidisciplinary projects aimed at providing sustainable solutions to industry and society. She has completed 3 projects funded by various government bodies, including IOCL (R&D), Faridabad, and MNRE, New Delhi. She played a significant role as the coordinator of the Biogas Development & Training Centre, Dehradun, established by the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, New Delhi. Through this centre, she contributed to society by conducting training and awareness camps for rural residents in Uttarakhand, promoting the use of biogas as an alternate fuel. She has supervised 4 Ph.D. scholars and has an impressive publication record of 58 research papers, 10 books, 7 book chapters and 5 patents. She is currently continuing her research in the potential area of waste management, exploring different waste categories for various applications while focusing on cost-effectiveness, environmental friendliness, and sustainability.
shailey@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy