Research Interests
Prof. Dimri received Gold Medal in her Law Graduation, Best Teacher, Best Course Coordinator and Dedicated service award at UPES Dehradun.
Home
Work Experience
Prof. Shikha Dimri’s teaching philosophy focusses on student-centric learning processes. She has been actively placing reliance on uncompromised clarity of fundamentals. Her teaching style is highly interactive and student- oriented. She attaches high value to students’ questions and reflections and engages them in meaningful discussions. Her belief is making students capable of applying the law, reflects in her relevant and interesting examples and case-law based teaching. She keeps asking pertinent questions to keep track of the students’ perception of the provisions and their creative critical thinking in the application of the law.
Professor
Prof. Dimri has aligned (though not restricted) her teaching interests in line with her research interests. She teaches courses on Principles of Contracts, Special Contracts and Commercial laws, Transfer of Property & Easement Acts, Torts & Consumer Protection Laws. She teaches Business Law & International Business law to Executive BBA & MBA Program. She has maintained track of new developments in the relevant domains and has been working on proper addition and dissemination of knowledge on the new developments.
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Prof. Dimri was at Law College Uttaranchal University Dehradun. Her journey and experience at UPES have been quite long (16 years) and she has handled different positions of responsibility including Associate Head, Planning and Monitoring, Associate Dean (Academics)i/c, Research Coordinator and Cluster Head LMT, to name a few. From framing of curriculum to deliver in class and at administrative level the academic planning, delivery and monitoring to evaluation and mentoring, she has a proven record of unfailing expertise.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Dr. Shikha Dimri
Profile Summary
shikha@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contracts | Transfer of Property Law | Torts | Consumer Protection Laws | Health Laws
Contact
Professor Shikha Dimri is one of the founding faculty member of UPES School of Law. She is a known expert on the Law of Contracts and Commercial Laws, International Business law, Law of Torts & Consumer Protection Laws and Transfer of Property Law. She has been contributing to the building of a rock solid foundation in students’ understanding of law and legal systems. Her research works are published in journals of repute at national and international levels journals. Her taught pupils, including the highly accomplished ones, respect her a lot.
Professor Shikha Dimri has maintained a wider research domain within the discipline of law. She has published 2 books and the third one is in press. Her research works relate with the contemporary concerns and needs of society. She is an accomplished scholar of collaborative researches.
Prof. Shikha has made significant scholarly contributions in the areas of Property rights of Women in India as well as Labour Reforms in India. Her research and publications in these domains have provided valuable insights into the social, economic, and legal aspects surrounding these issues. She has also worked in the area of healthcare laws and has published a number of research papers in journals of high repute and valuable indexing. Prof. Shikha has also guided project titled Studying Pattern of Violence Against Women – A Perspective on the State of Uttarakhand as Project Manager under the domain of Training Development & Placement) by Centre for Public Policy and Good Governance (CPPGG), Government of Uttarakhand.
Teaching Philosophy