Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Assistant Professor - Senior Grade
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Poonam Kainthura was awarded a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering and Engineering from Banasthali Vidyapith, Rajasthan. She has more than 9 years of research and 15 years of teaching experience. Her prime research areas are Machine Learning, Spatial Data Analysis, and Landslide prediction in Hilly regions of Uttarakhand. She has published several research articles, and book chapters in SCI/WOS/Scopus-indexed journals/conference proceedings. She is an active reviewer of several International Journals of high repute and has reviewed several research articles since 2017. She has also been invited to present guest lectures in faculty development programs and participated in numerous technical program committees and organizing committees.
pkainthura@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Dr. Poonam Kainthura
Dr. Poonam has been an academic for more than 15 years, 11 of them years served at UPES. She has taught computer science courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels. She began her career as an assistant programmer at NIC, Dehradun.
Dr. Poonam is working in the field of Spatial Data Analysis, Landslide Factor Analysis, Landslide Prediction, Solid Garbage waste management, and Machine Learning.
Throughout her academic career, Dr. Poonam has taught a variety of topics, including the Theory of Automata, Data Mining, Data Structures, Machine Learning, Software Engineering, Digital Forensics, and C-Programming. Her specialty, nevertheless, is machine-learning-based spatial analysis.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Poonam is an enthusiastic academician who has shown a great commitment to using creative teaching methods. She promotes teaching beyond traditional classroom limits and passionately thinks that learning is the first step toward teaching. She aims to provide a supportive and interactive learning atmosphere in the classroom where students feel free to voice their opinions and actively participate in their education through real-world problems.
Contact
Dr. Poonam has an impressive publishing history, with multiple research articles published in prestigious SCI-indexed publications. Some of the journals, that she has published are Scientific Reports )Nature Publishing Group)(https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-22814-9), Journal of Georisk: Assessment and Management of Risk for Engineered Systems and Geohazards (Taylor Francis)(https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17499518.2021.1957484).
Teaching Philosophy