UGC-JRF Award Number- 3548/NET-JULY.2016
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr Shatrughan’s teaching philosophy is grounded in making the classroom more interactive. He motivates students to participate in the classroom and creates an effective learning environment to advance the knowledge and learning skills of students.
Dr. Shatrughan Yadav has published four articles in ABDC-indexed journals, one in A, two in B, and one in C. He has also attended various distinguished international conferences, including the Indian Academy of Management (INDAM) India, the British Academy of Management (BAM) UK, and the Journal of Management Studies, UK. He also attended Professional Development Workshop at Moller Institute, University of Cambridge in September 2022.
from the Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) to present his paper at the Journal of Management Studies Academic Conference at Durham Business School, University of Durham UK.
Faculty
Before joining the UPES School of Business, Dr. Shatrughan was a doctoral candidate in the Department of Management Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee.
Dr. Shatrughan Yadav is a recipient of the University Grant Commission-Junior Research Fellowship (
Scholarly Activities
Shatrughan.yadav@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr Shatrughan Yadav is an IIT alumnus. He received his Ph.D. from the Department of Management Studies, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, in September-2022. His research interests include workforce diversity, diversity management, and promoting diversity recruitment at the workplace. He has had the privilege of visitng University of Cambridge and Durham Business School, University of Durham, UK.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Dr. Shatrughan Yadav’s specialization is Human Resource Management and Organizational Behaviour. He teaches subjects like Human Resource Management, Global HRM, Industrial Relations, Organizational Behaviour, Principles and Practices of Management, and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Profile Summary
Dr. Shatrughan Yadav
CON/71/2022-23/IC)
) for undertaking his Ph.D. He is also a recipient of an International Travel Grant (Travel Grant Number-
School of Business
Workforce Diversity, Diversity Management, Knowledge Sharing, Team Innovation
Contact
Teaching Philosophy