Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Sasmita teaches the core course in Human Resource Management, Organisation Behavior, Talent Management, labour legislations and Industrial Relations.
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Sasmita taught Human Resource Management, Industrial Relations, Labour Legislations in B K School of professional and Management studies in Gujarat University. She has also taught in different management colleges in Ahmedabad and Bhubaneswar. She has worked in Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad as Academic Associate and Research associate.
Sasmita is actively engaged in research areas such as work-family interface, career issues in case of dual earning families etc. She is committed to sharing findings through research publications and participation in reputed national and international conferences.  She has presented her work in the international conferences like Academy of Management, Indian Academy of Management, Asian Academy of Management, World-congress on positive psychology and many more. Her scholarly work has also got accepted for presentation in many national conferences. She has published her work in ABDC and scopus indexed journals. She has a book and many book chapters to her credit.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Sasmita Dash
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Work-family interface | Career Management | Safety behaviour |   Labour issues in the supply chain | Female work force participation| Qualitative research methodology |
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
As a faculty of Human Resource Management and Organisation Behavior, Sasmita’s teaching philosophy centres on making the students familiar with the importance of the subject as a theory and practice, fostering critical thinking among her students as well as encouraging students in finding practical implications of the education. She believes unless students understand the role of diverse socio-cultural-economic context in management decisions, the learning is incomplete. Case-based and project-based teaching can fill the gap between the theory and practice. She emphasizes the importance of learning outside the class room and self-learning.
School of Business
sasmita.dash@upes.ddn.ac.in
Contact
Dr. Sasmita Dash has a FPM (PhD) from XLRI Jamshedpur, specializing in Human Resource Management. Her thesis work on safety behaviour in large size manufacturing plants, have discovered Indian workplaces are much different than the homogeneous nature of workplaces referred in the literature and needs to be looked from a separate lenc. Her other research focus is on work-family interface, gender and career issues in case of dual earning families. She brings in the role of complex Indian social system in understanding the career issues or any other work place behavior. She has worked in a project on “career issues in case of employee with disability” sponsored by Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad.
Sasmita is UGC NET qualified in the discipline of Management and Labour Relations.
Teaching Philosophy