Two decades and more in corporate life, working in large MNCs with some wonderful people, while living in several countries for 20 years, has given me the ability to appreciate cultural diversity, build winning teams spread across multiple time zones, understand emotional drivers, and norms of doing business globally. Navigating through two major crises – the Asian financial collapse and SARS in Hong Kong, gave me the opportunity to face disruption, and constructively carve success stories where none seemed possible.
DeHaat: Storming the Indian Agritech market: Ivey Publishing
Research Interests
:
Strategy | Innovation | Organization Behaviour | Leadership | Disruption
Prof. Majumdar teaches subjects on Strategy. He has taught a wide variety of electives: Core Strategic Management, Being a Strategist, Strategy Execution, Effective Business Strategy & Leadership, Management Skills, Problem Solving & Consulting Skills, and Developing Case Study Skills. Interspersed through his classes, he prepares students to handle complex “CXO’s dilemmas”. His classes prepare students to approach any business problem/opportunity with a structured thinking process, which can be communicated across the organization through a compelling story expressed by visual means (graphs. Tables, Videos etc.).
Sleepwell: Engineering dreams, one layer at a time: Ivey Publishing
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Journal
Close
Cases
Journal of Accountancy and Public Interest.
Corridor Seven Coffee Roaster: Birth of speciality drinks: Ivey Publishing
Satkar Automobiles: Rearing to win F1 in auto dealer: Ivey Publishing
Faculty
Nirula’s: Revitalizing a Made in India legacy Brand: Ivey Publishing
Arup Majumdar
TTK: Protecting the Prestige of the Brand: Ivey Publishing
Reserve Bank of India: Facing a Financial Tango: Ivey Publishing
Scholarly Activities
ABDC “B”. Jolly Masih, Arup Majumdar, Amita Sharma. ISBN: 1745-7718, Vol 40, Issue Number 07.
In management schools, they teach you that goals are important. What's also equally important is the journey towards those goals. That's part of what I taught at Shiv Nadar University, BML Munjal University, IMT Ghaziabad and now at UPES Dehradun. Every day is a day of giving, guidance, and mentoring.
arup.majumdar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Coco Fresh: Overcoming Entry Barriers in Health Drinks: Ivey Publishing
Courses Taught
VIP Industries: Ivey Publishing
Prof. Majumdar’s teaching philosophy is based on experiential learning. He extensively uses the case method to expose students to real business situations and encourages them to actively participate in classroom discussions. He administers cases that solves the “CXO dilemmas” and touches all functional area – sales & marketing, finance, HR, supply chain and operations, customer satisfaction, and growth through mergers and acquisitions. The class discussions are primarily student driven and he also uses “simulation exercise” and “flipped classroom” to get better student engagement. He extensively trains students to make their pitch through compelling storytelling.
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Majumdar has over 30 years of experience in the corporate and academic world. His career in corporate was with Ernst & Young (1 year), Carrier Corporation in India & Malaysia (8 years), Emerson in Hong Kong (12 years), Danfoss in France (3 years), Embraco (a Whirlpool company) in Beijing (2 years). After returning to India, he set up his own management consulting firm, Trariti Consulting Group that helps companies achieve profitable growth. HIs entire corporate experience has been to build/grow businesses. Since the past 2 years, he shifted to academia, and as Professor of Strategy, has taught MBA students in Shiv Nadar University, BML Munjal University and IMT Ghaziabad.
Prof. Majumdar has a deep interest in the case method of teaching and has published several cases through Ivey Publishing Canada and Emerald Publishing. He has also published in the Journal of Accountancy Business and Public Interest.
Becton Dickinson: Dilemma in Cancer Detection precision: Ivey Publishing
Professor of Practice
Profile Summary
School of Business
Haveli Ram to Havells: A global giant’s challenge: Ivey Publishing
Garuda Aerospace: Ready for flight: Ivey Publishing
Victoria’s Secret: Falling of the Angels. Emerald Publishing
: “What does the future hold for Health Insurance premiums in India: insights from Arima Models”:
MVS Saree: Draping women in India: Ivery Publishing
That experience has come in handy. I constantly challenge MBA students to look at problems from different angles and explore creative solutions. I enjoy the vibrancy and energy at the campus, as well as the opportunity to grow the management discipline of Strategy into a demanding yet enjoyable and rewarding career.
Contact
The best reward came from my students, who awarded me 4.9/5 in a survey a few months earlier. What more can I ask for? Sure, the next best reward would be to see my students in top leadership positions in the coming years.
Cases (submitted and under review)
Teaching Philosophy
Prof. Majumdar received the Emerson Technology Award, given for outstanding contribution to building a profitable global business. This award is a highly coveted award in Emerson USA and is chosen from over 50 applications from various businesses globally. Prof. Majumdar was awarded for his contribution in building a new business from scratch to $120M over 5 years with 2x profitability as compared to the core business.