Multi-Criteria Decision-Making Analysis
Production and Operation Management
Research Interests
Santosh Anand
Santosh.anand@ddn.upes.ac.in
Mr. Santosh Anand has formed a multidisciplinary team on an international collaborative project to better understand the causes of food loss and waste. This food loss and waste not only misspends the resources such as water, labour, energy etc, but also negatively impact the triple bottom line (Society, Economy and Environment).
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Received “Certificate of Honour” in 2013 by Sister Nivedita Takniki Shiksha Samiti, Bhopal & M.P. Council of Science & Technology, Bhopal.
Sustainability
Close
Ph. D. (Operation & Supply Chain Management), Department of Management Studies, IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand, India.
Before joining UPES, Mr. Santosh Anand previously worked as an assistant professor in the department of mechanical engineering at LNCT Bhopal from May 2012 to December 2013. From December 2013 until June 2018, he worked as an assistant professor in the mechanical engineering department at SRM Institute of Science & Technology, Modinagar, NCR Campus, Ghaziabad.
Total Quality Management
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
B.Sc. Engineering (Production Engineering), Department of Production Engineering, BIT Sindri, Jharkhand, India.
Agri-fresh produce supply chain
Operation Research
Profile Summary
Food Security
Qualified GATE exams in PI in 2008.
School of Business
Mr. Santosh Anand teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create an environment that supports and encourages student learning. He has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class where they complete a short quiz. Quiz material is not repeated in class but instead is used as the foundation for in-class assignments that involve students working with real data and situations. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
MHRD Fellowship (During Doctoral)- 2018-2023.
MHRD Fellowship (During Post-Graduation) - 2009 -2011.
Contact
B.Sc. Chemistry (H), Lalit Narain Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, Bihar.
M. Tech (Industrial Engineering & Management), Department of Management Studies and Industrial Engineering, IIT(ISM) Dhanbad, Jharkhand, India.
Teaching Philosophy
Assistant Professor (Senior scale)