radhika.jagtap@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Before joining UPES, Dr. Radhika taught at the Symbiosis Law School, Pune. She was a residential research scholar at the Centre for International Legal Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University from 2013-2020.
Radhika has worked, published, presented, and organized extensively in public international law and gender studies in various national and international journals including publishers like Oxford University Press, Duncker & Humblot’s German Yearbook of International Law, and Economic and Political Weekly amongst others. She has presented and cascaded her research at various intellectual and academic forums including the Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law and International Law, Heidelberg, Germany, Walther Schlücking Institute for International Law (WSI) at the University of Kiel, Germany, University of Westminster and Melbourne Law School’s 14th Doctoral Forum on Legal Theory. She was an active part of the Gender Champions’ cell at Symbiosis Law School, Pune (where she previously taught for 2.6 years) which is a cell formed under UGC mandate for gender sensitization, awareness, and dialogue. She has been a resource person in various Faculty Development Programs and has organised in lead various academic events at national and international level herself.
Faculty
Dr. Radhika has teaching experience of about three years. She holds her M.Phil and PhD in International Legal Studies from the Centre for International Legal Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi and is a graduate from the Institute of Law, Nirma University, Ahmedabad.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Radhika’s thesis, which she defended in 2021, explored the discursive and theoretical relation between Social Movements and the discipline of Public International Law. Through the same, she inquired the regional politics of international law, feminist movements and pre independence movements from India to favour a hypothesis that the theorisation of non-western histories of international law are underwritten. Post doctorate, she continues to research and write extensively in the areas of Gender Justice and Feminist Jurisprudence, Public International Law and Labour Laws.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Dr. Radhika trusts immensely in collaborative and student-centric approaches of teaching. She firmly believes in “study to sensitise” and looks at academia as a continuous learning process for the student as well as the teacher, especially one that promotes for making individuals autonomous in life and critical in thinking.
Dr. Radhika Jagtap
Profile Summary
Dr. Radhika was a gold medalist in her LLM batch. She has received foreign travel grants twice for cascading her work- once for Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law and International Law, Heidelberg, Germany and other, at Walther Schlücking Institute for International Law (WSI) at the University of Kiel, Germany.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Dr. Radhika has taught courses aligned with international law- like International criminal law, Humanitarian and refugee law, International Organisations Law alongside other subjects like the Labour Laws, Gender Justice and Feminist Jurisprudence, European Union Law. She currently is teaching Insurance law and Humanitarian and Refugee Law at SOL, UES, Dehradun.
Teaching Philosophy