Research Interests
Dr. Dubey focuses on developing a sense of applicability in real-life phenomena and physical processes while ensuring a deep and clear understanding of the theoretical concepts of the subject among her students.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
rashmi.dubey@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Dr. Dubey's research interests centre around Convective Heat and Mass Transfer, Stability Analysis, and Double-diffusive Convective Phenomena.
Faculty
Dr. Rashmi earned her Ph.D. and master’s degree in applied mathematics from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. Driven by a keen interest in teaching and research, she has published numerous papers in quality International Journals (SCI) and presented her research at international conferences. Dr. Rashmi is also recognized as a rising applied mathematician.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Rashmi Dubey has taught courses such as Calculus for Engineers, Applications of Differential and Difference Equations, Applied Linear Algebra, Engineering Mathematics, and Discrete Mathematics.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Rashmi Dubey
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact
Dr. Rashmi Dubey has received the Best Graduate Award (Gold Medal) in B.Sc. (Hons.) from Jamshedpur Women's College (Autonomous) and the post-graduate merit scholarship award for university rank holders by the University Grants Commission, Government of India. Recently, she has been awarded the International Travel grant from the National Board for Higher Mathematics, Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India.
Applied Science
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Rashmi Dubey served as an Assistant Professor at VIT - AP University for two years.
Dr. Dubey's scholarly activities include publishing papers in various reputed international journals (SCI). She actively presents papers at various national and international conferences in India and abroad, delivering invited talks in academic lecture series and international conferences. Dr. Dubey is also actively involved in the paper review process of various reputed journals such as Physics of Fluids, Applied Mathematics and Computations, and Materials Today: Proceedings. Moreover, she has organized international workshops and conferences as a core organizing committee member and convener. As a testament to her involvement in the academic community, she is a life member of the Indian Society for Theoretical and Applied Mechanics.
Teaching Philosophy