He is a seasoned professional and handled portfolios such as Project Manager, Head System Development, Technical Head, Project Lead, Sr. Full Stack Developer, DBA, Solution Architect, and Corporate Trainer. As an academician, he has been supervising research projects of graduate, post-graduate, and doctoral scholars and giving lectures on the UK, American, African, and Indian-based university curriculums to research scholars. He is a Microsoft-certified technology specialist and certified Java programmer along with NIIT & HCL certified technical trainer. He has trained more than 8000 Computer Science and Information Technology Engineers in advanced software engineering practices, technologies, and tools in India and abroad.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Shrivas teaches electives on Blockchain Technologies, Cloud, DevOps, and Cybersecurity. He teaches the tools and technologies needed to design, implement, and deliver modern-era enterprise software solutions. He has been lecturing on core subjects such as software engineering, object-oriented programming, database technologies, web technologies, data structures, and algorithms along with operating system concepts.
Awards and Grants
Dr. Shrivas has been leading efforts to develop quantum blockchain technologies and has undertaken FDP, expert lectures, and workshop sessions on blockchain solution development and the area of quantum blockchain. He is also mentoring various government bodies and corporations to develop blockchain solutions to prevent fraud, implement transparent processes, and offer time-bound services to citizens. He is also active in research literature publishing to share knowledge with the research communities apart from contributing as a reviewer, technical program committee & editorial board member of various reputed International Journals/Conferences such as IEEE, IGI Global, etc.
Close
School of Computer Science
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Shrivas received the best Project Lead award from the Centre for Smart Governance, Govt. of Karnataka. He has been awarded Senior Member of IEEE (SMIEEE) and recipient of two prestigious awards for his notable services and contributions towards the advancement of IEEE and the engineering professions in 2018 & 2020 by the IEEE Ghana Section. He was awarded a $20,000 short-term research grant for enterprise data recovery by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC, Ghana) Limited & Affiliates. Dr. Shrivas is a recipient of the Best Lecturer Award from SMU Ghana (KnowledgeWorks Ltd.) Kumasi-Campus and received the best trainer of the territory award from NIIT Ltd. Dr. Shrivas is an under-19 national gold medallist in athletics.
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Dr. Shrivas was at the Centre for Smart Governance (CSG) and held Project Manager and Project Lead positions at the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (eGovernance), Govt. of Karnataka, Bangalore, India. He also worked for HCL and NIIT in the Institution alliance division and delivered corporate training at institutions of repute spread all over North India. He has designed and delivered various software developer training programs for various corporations such as HCL Technologies. He has also worked with Vishwamitra Group, Dubai, and Eureka Africa Group, West Africa.
Courses Taught
Quantum Blockchain Technologies | Post-Quantum Cryptography | Supply-chain | Smart Governance| Process Engineering and Automation| Defence Technologies | AgriTech | FinTech | Cybersecurity | Sustainable Development | Multi-Disciplinary Research
Mahendra Kumar Shrivas
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Shrivas’s teaching philosophy emphasizes learning by doing and activity-based learning along with the layered approach to focus on active engagement, hands-on experience, and experiential learning leading to deeper understanding and retention of knowledge. The layered approach focuses on knowledge acquisition, use-case analysis, case studies, and applying the knowledge to solve similar problems in different contexts. His approach involves collaboration with peers to promote teamwork, communication skills, and the ability to work effectively in diverse groups. This approach helps the learner to develop problem-solving skills and the ability to apply their knowledge in new and diverse contexts.
mahendrak.shrivas@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Mahendra Shrivas has been recognized as a Senior Member of IEEE (SMIEEE) and is a leading expert in the area of smart governance, blockchain technologies, cloud, and cybersecurity including modern complex full-stack solution design and development. He has also actively contributed to various corporate and government departments in Agile & DevSecOps Adoption, Data Administration & Governance. He is known for data center administration along with handling cybersecurity of state-wide mission-critical cyber and IT infrastructures.
Teaching Philosophy