Research Interests
Her main teaching areas are Finance and Accounting. She teaches Financial Management, Strategic Management, Corporate Valuations, Managerial Economics.
Home
Work Experience
Close
Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial Finance, Crowdfunding, Stock Market, and Behavioural Finance.
Faculty
Dr. Vijaya is an Assistant Professor of Finance and Strategic Management at the School of Business, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES) Dehradun, India. She did Doctorate in the domain of Entrepreneurial Finance from Institute of Management Studies (Faculty of Management Studies), Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India. She has qualified UGC-NET JRF. Her research interest is in Crowdfunding, Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial Finance and Behavioural Finance. Her research papers are published in Scopus, Web of Science, and ABDC listed journals and she has also edited books published to her name. She has presented research papers in many national and international conferences.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
vijaya@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Mishra has attended and presented papers in National and International conferences and he has also published papers in Q1 journals indexed in Scopus and ABDC.
Profile Summary
Her educational approach involves instilling ethical values in students through the delivery of high-quality education, fostering a sense of responsibility among them as future citizens. Additionally, she inspires students to cultivate critical thinking skills and become proactive problem solvers. She is dedicated to nurturing the comprehensive growth of students by prioritizing their overall development.
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Contact
Dr. Vijaya
Teaching Philosophy
She has around 1 year of working experience in academics, research, and administration. Before joining UPES she was associated with Fairfield Institute of Management and Technology (FIMT) as an Assistant Professor in the domain Finance and Accounting. Her teaching subjects are Financial Management, Security Analysis and Portfolio Management, Managerial Economics and Strategic Management.