Research Interests
Before joining UPES in 2011, he served at JNIT College, Hyderabad and Dravidian University, Kuppam as an assistant professor. He successfully demonstrated his academic leadership in various leadership roles like HoD, Asst. Dean-Academics and Professor in Charge/Associate Dean Research.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Prof. Sastry practices “learning by doing” and project-based approaches in his teaching. He fosters student outcomes by nurturing their inbuilt skills.
Scholarly Activities
In the realm of artificial intelligence, he is a constant learner of optimization algorithms. He has worked on various projects involving search optimization for large repositories using semantic web and machine learning concepts, real-stream data processing using deep learning algorithms, optimized routing for vehicular networks using swarm intelligence, and efficient broadcasting for vehicular networks using machine learning. His research contributions have been published in reputable conferences and journals. He has supervised 5 Ph. D scholars, and currently 2 Ph.D. scholars are working under his research supervision.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Hanumat Sastry G
Prof. Sastry actively contributes to various academic and research activities; he is serving as a reviewer for various reputed journals and conferences and organizes special issues and edited books as an editor. He has successfully organized multiple funded faculty development programs. As a conference chair, he organized well acclaimed international conference in the year 2017 (NGCT2017).
Profile Summary
He is an experienced outcome-based curriculum developer. He has made significant contributions to developing various undergraduate and postgraduate programs of industry-academia collaborations, ensuring compliance with rigorous standards and quality. He has rich experience in accrediting processes, including QS, NAAC, NBA, and ABET. He has demonstrated success in cultivating strategic alliances with industry partners, driving collaborative research projects, internships, and knowledge transfer to enhance academic programs and provide practical opportunities for students.
Contact
Prof. Sastry teaches core and specialized computer science courses in undergraduate, postgraduate and Ph.D programs. He loves to teach algorithms, databases, and machine learning courses. He taught formal languages and automata theory, operating systems, software engineering, service-oriented architecture, artificial intelligence, and research methodology, etc.
Prof. Hanumat Sastry G is a seasoned computer science academician. He is passionate to teach algorithms and research methodology courses, and his research interests include optimization algorithms, natural-inspired computing, machine learning, data science, and internet of vehicles. Throughout his career, he has demonstrated a deep passion for understanding and solving complex problems in these fields, and he is committed to pushing the boundaries of knowledge through research and sharing his expertise with the next generation of students.
Prof. Sastry is recognized by IBM-ICE for his contributions in developing industry-aligned curricula, and he has received Ph.D. research fellowship at Dravidian University.
Teaching Philosophy
hsastry@ddn.upes.ac.in