Dr. Jain teaches courses like Sustainable Energy System for Mobility and Advanced Propulsion Systems to M.tech students, Machine Design to B.Tech students, and Contemporary Research Challenges and Trends to PhD students.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Jain worked as a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the National University of Singapore, where he collaborated with Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) under the Campus for Research Excellence and Technological Enterprise (CREATE) framework. The program focused on sustainable solutions for problems in stressed megacities, strategic policy-making, and real-time environmental monitoring and response. Additionally, he has worked as an Associate Professor at the University of Alberta, Canada, and the College of Engineering Roorkee, Roorkee.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Siddharth Jain is a well-known researcher who aspires to become a world leader in the area of energy systems and contribute to the development of sustainable and environmentally friendly energy pathways. He pursued his master's and doctoral degrees at the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, focusing on energy-related research. His undergraduate training has been predominantly in mechanical engineering. He volunteered for various projects with laboratory and practical aspects, which developed his interest in sustainable energy due to its central role worldwide and direct practical application in interdisciplinary fields. He has been recognized for his research work and has been featured in the world's top 2% researchers list by Stanford University, USA, for the past two years.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Mechanical
His research interests include Biomass & Bioenergy, waste to energy, Life Cycle Assessment, and Thermochemical conversion technologies.
Scholarly Activities
Siddharth Jain
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
siddharth.jain@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Jain's teaching philosophy revolves around fostering an environment that nurtures and motivates student learning. He incorporates elements of "Project-Based Learning (PBL)" in his classes, such as projects and case studies, where students apply classroom learning to real-world scenarios. Additionally, he employs a teaching model that combines classroom teaching, PBL, and flip-classroom teaching to enhance the learning experience.
His graduate research involved biodiesel production from renewable, non-food crops with lower environmental footprints, contributing to energy independence in growing nations like India. His research publications, citations, and grants demonstrate his significant contributions in this area. Throughout his research and teaching experiences in Singapore, Canada, and India, he continued his research on biomass-based liquid fuels and their environmental and economic implications.
Dr. Jain received the Best Teacher award in 2015. He has been included in the world's top 2% researchers list by Stanford University in 2021 and 2022. He was honoured with the Researcher of the Year Award by the Honourable Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Pushkar Singh Dhami, in 2021. He has also received three sponsored projects from TEQIP-3, UTU, in 2019.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy