Research Interests
Constitutional Laws | Legal Education| Artificial Intelligence | Blockchain Technology | Healthcare Regulation | Smart Cities |
Before joining UPES, Ms. Prachi has worked as Assistant Professor in Symbiosis Law School, Pune, and ICFAI University Dehradun and also has one year of court experience. She has also given guest lecture in Vietnam National University.
Home
Work Experience
Close
prachi.mishra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Prachi Mishra
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Ms. Prachi’s teaching philosophy is centered on developing a thorough understanding and critical analysis of legal frameworks, particularly in relation to emerging technologies. She focuses on practical applications and actively encourages her students to immerse themselves in real-world legal scenarios. This approach not only prepares students for the dynamic challenges but also makes learning engaging and enjoyable. Ms. Prachi enhances this experience by incorporating interactive and captivating methods, such as using gaming interface quiz apps, to make the learning process both fun and informative. Her innovative teaching style thus successfully combines deep academic insights with an enjoyable and stimulating learning environment
Ms. Mishra is actively involved in various academic and professional endeavors, including co-chairing sessions on environmental sustainability, delivering keynote speeches, and being part of dedicated Research Oriented Educational Academy with focus on interface of emerging highly disruptive technologies. She was also the Faculty Convenor of Centre for Cyber law in the previous institutions and has significantly contributed to the academic community through her publications in the form of book chapters and various peer reviewed national and international journals indexed in UGC-CARE and SCOPUS, focusing on AI, intellectual property rights, and legal aspects of technology. In addition to this, recently Ms. Prachi has successfully completed a course on “Competing in the Age of AI” from Harvard Business School thereby enhancing her knowledge in the field of emerging technologies and law.
Ms. Prachi Mishra is a dedicated and passionate academician in Law, specializing in the intersection of Law and emerging technologies. Her current research focuses on the “Regulatory Analysis of AI and Blockchain in Healthcare within Smart Cities”, reflecting a deep commitment to exploring the legal dimensions of advanced technologies.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Ms. Prachi has taught Constitution Law, and Technology Law. Her courses also focus on the intersection of technology and law, including subjects related to Data Privacy and Protection, AI, blockchain, and related regulatory framework. Ms. Prachi’s teaching integrates theoretical knowledge with practical insights, equipping students with the skills needed in modern legal practices.