Assistant Professor(SS)
Research Interests
mmanglik@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Over the years, Dr. Manglik has taught a diverse range of courses to undergraduate and postgraduate students, including Engineering Mathematics I, II, and III, Calculus, Matrices, Graph Theory, Logics and Sets, Remedial Mathematics, Biostatistics, and Operations Research among others.
Profile Summary
Dr. Manglik's teaching philosophy is centred around fostering a positive and inclusive learning environment that empowers students to actively participate. She believes in creating a supportive atmosphere where students feel comfortable asking questions, expressing their thoughts, and exploring their curiosities. Emphasizing collaborative learning, she encourages students to exchange ideas and engage in teamwork and group activities, which promote effective communication and active listening.
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Manglik has 9 years of teaching experience. She has established herself as a dedicated educator and researcher, contributing significantly to her field of interest, reliability theory, through research papers published in renowned international and national journals.
Monika Manglik
Dr. Manglik's research contributions have been focused on studying the reliability and availability of complex systems, such as hydroelectric power plants, cloud computing transition systems, biometric systems, and electric vehicles. She has done extensive work in this area and has published several research papers published in reputable journals, as well as authored books and chapters. As an academic supervisor, she has guided undergraduate students in their minor projects and has also published conference proceedings.
Contact
Upon completing her doctorate, Dr. Manglik joined UPES as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics. Throughout her tenure, she has been actively engaged in teaching, conducting research, enhancing students' experiences, promoting extracurricular activities, and fulfilling administrative responsibilities. As a mentor, she has guided students in various research projects and played a crucial role as a team member in the university's accreditation committees.
Applied Sciences
Dr. Manglik's research interests revolve around reliability analysis, with a specific focus on complex systems under multiple failures and coverage factors.
Teaching Philosophy