ashish.mishra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Ashish Mishra
Close
His research focuses on developing lightweight and effective solutions for ballistic armour and structures using experimental and numerical methods. He has published various articles in international journals and presented papers at prestigious international conferences.
Faculty
Dr. Mishra teaches courses in the field of mechanics and materials which include aerospace structures, finite element method, mechanics of materials, composite materials, aircraft materials, engineering mechanics and allied areas.
Mechanical
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Mishra’s broader research area includes composite materials, impact loading on structures, computational solid mechanics, material characterization, and reliability. He is also interested in using the combined approach of material and mechanics to provide lightweight solutions for ballistic armour, space shields, and structures.
Profile Summary
Dr. Mishra's teaching methodology fosters critical thinking, problem-solving skills, and a deeper understanding of the subject. He simplifies complex concepts and relates them to real-world engineering applications.
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Mishra holds a Ph.D. in Aerospace Structures (2018) and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering (2014) from IIT Madras. He completed his B.E. in Aeronautical Engineering from the Aeronautical Society of India in 2011.
Contact
Dr. Mishra is actively working in collaboration with national and international members to develop lightweight solutions for ballistic armour and impact-resistant structures. He is also supervising a few Ph.D. scholars at UPES. Additionally, he is also serving as the editor of the renowned journal 'Advances in Materials' and reviews for various reputed international journals. He developed an online tool to demonstrate lab practicals which enhances the classroom teaching experience. He also organized a workshop on technical writing using LaTeX and was a member of the organizing committee of the National Space Convention-2023.
Dr. Mishra and his team won the Defence India Start-up Challenge, an initiative orchestrated by the Government of India. Additionally, they secured the distinguished position of second runner-up in the SAE Aerothon competition. Dr. Mishra's academic journey includes being granted a post-doctoral fellowship by IIT Madras and holds a lifetime membership in the esteemed Aeronautical Society of India. The accomplishments of his students are equally impressive, as they attained the distinction of receiving the best thesis awards within the realm of aerospace engineering. Furthermore, he received a research grant ‘SEED’ of Rs. 3 lakhs from UPES.
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
Before joining UPES, Dr. Mishra was an institute post-doc fellow at IIT Madras. He has also worked as a Trainee at DRDO- Centre of Airborne System, Bengaluru for one year.
Teaching Philosophy