Pharmacology and Toxicology, Animal toxicity assessment, Human Anatomy, and Physiology.
Dr. Shubham has published 14 research and review papers in International journals with SCI and SCOPUS. Dr. Dwivedi has been invited for the research talks at national and international conferences. He has guided 5 master’s and 1 bachelor’s student and is currently guiding three Ph.D. scholar and two bachelor’s students. He is a reviewer for various international journals, such as Frontiers in Pharmacology. Key publications are listed below:
Research Interests
Travel award from Department of Science and Technology (DST)-Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Government of India, for poster presentation at ISN- ESN meeting, 2017, Paris, France
Travel award from International Society for Neurochemistry (ISN) for poster presentation at ISN- ASN Meeting, 2019, Montreal, Canada
Dwivedi, S., Bautista, M., Shrestha, S., Elhasasna, H., Chaphekar, T., Vizeacoumar, F. S., & Krishnan, A. (2021). Sympathetic signaling facilitates the progression of neuroendocrine prostate cancer. Cell death discovery, 7(1), 1-8.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Selected for fully funded 2nd IBRO/APRC Chandigarh Neuroscience School (2016), Chandigarh, India and won 3rd prize for oral presentation.
Selected as a recipient of a 2020 Trainee Professional Development Award from the Society for Neuroscience
Close
National Travel Award
Travel award from The Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance for attending The Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance Science Communication Workshop 2018, New Delhi, India
Faculty
Awarded Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), India (2018)
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Shubham Dwivedi
Others
Courses Taught
Dr. Dwivedi has expertise in neuropharmacology and behavioral science with a significant focus on autism spectrum disorder and Nerve Cancer interaction, during his Ph.D. Dr. Shubham has developed an approach to study autism-like phenotypes in zebrafish larvae, which includes validation of autism-like behavioral and molecular features. The proposed model is recognized to be a tool for high throughput screening for novel candidates against autism in his lab. He has also established an in vitro approach using neurosphere isolated from rat embryos as a model system for target-based screening of neurodevelopmental toxicity. He is currently screening the phytoconstituents from the natural products against targets for autism using in vitro and zebrafish larvae model as a tool. His interest also lies in preclinical model developments, understanding clinical autism, and identifying the salivary biomarkers for autism. Additionally, he is also exploring the role of nerve growth factors in cancer proliferation and metastasis.
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Shubham Dwivedi is a Pharmacologist by training. Dr. Shubham received his PhD. from BITS-Pilani Hyderabad Campus, where he was working on the development of preclinical models for high throughput drug screening against autism. Later he joined Dr. Anand Krishnan’s lab at the University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada, to explore the role of sympathetic nerves in cancer progression and proliferation. Shubham has published in various renowned journals of international repute, including Cell Death Discovery, American Journal of Cancer Research, European Journal of Pharmacology, European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, etc.
Dwivedi, S., Medishetti, R., Rani, R., Sevilimedu, A., Kulkarni, P., & Yogeeswari, P. (2019). Larval zebrafish model for studying the effects of valproic acid on neurodevelopment: An approach towards modeling autism. Journal of pharmacological and toxicological methods, 95, 56-65.
Travel award from ISN for poster presentation at ISN-APSN Meeting, Neuroscience School cum conference, 2018, Macau, China
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Jangra, A., Dwivedi, S., Sriram, C. S., Gurjar, S. S., Kwatra, M., Sulakhiya, K., ... & Lahkar, M. (2016). Honokiol abrogates chronic restraint stress-induced cognitive impairment and depressive-like behavior by blocking endoplasmic reticulum stress in the hippocampus of mice. European Journal of Pharmacology, 770, 25-32.
Dr. Dwivedi is well versed with experimentations of in vitro cell culture, such as primary cell culture, 3D coculture, neurosphere culture, and continuous cell lines. Dr. Shubham is a trained professional with expertise in handling, behavioral studies, and surgeries, and cancer induction of animal models, including rats, mice, and zebrafish. He has hands-on experience with molecular biology techniques such as Reverse Transcriptase PCR, Agarose Gel Electrophoresis, Semi-quantitative/Quantitative Real Time PCR (qPCR), Western blotting, Immunofluorescence, ELISA, etc.
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Dr. Dwivedi believes in the quote, “What a human mind can conceive can achieve,” through which he passes the message to the students to visualize the concepts like a movie. He encourages students to share their thoughts even if they are wrong. He creates an aura of interactive learning among student which makes them open for discussion and helps to develop a base for real-life challenges and decision-making. To remember the classification of drugs, he helps students with self-made mnemonics with a significant focus on understanding the cause and remedies, which are effective in thoughtful learning of the subject. Under the project-based learning, Dr. Shubham has introduced research paper presentations to undergrad students. This helps students to explore, identify and inoculate their selves into suitable research at an early age.
Contact
shubham.dwivedi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Dwivedi has 8+ years of research and 3+ years of teaching experience. Before joining UPES, Dr. Shubham Dwivedi was working as a post-doctoral fellow at Krishnan’s lab, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada, March 2020-July, 2021.
International Awards
Teaching Philosophy
Krishnan, A., Dwivedi, S., Chandrasekhar, A., Areti, A., & Zochodne, D. (2020). In vitro, priming response in dorsal root ganglia partially mimics injury-driven pre-conditioning response and reprograms neurons for enhanced outgrowth. Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, 103573