Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Wireless Sensor Networks, Embedded System, Robotics, Automation and Control, IoT, nanotechnology, AI and ML
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Sushabhan Choudhary
schoudhury@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Professor Sushabhan Choudhury has the scholarly, research and administrative experience of 31 years  as professor, associate professor or equivalent, Assistant Professor. He did his graduation, post-graduation and doctoral degrees from premier Institutions and claim to have scholarly experience from some premier Institutes of this country. During 31 years of teaching experience, he was involved in research, dissemination of research outcomes and motivating students and colleagues to get involved in research .He has also worked in the  capacity of Academic Coordinator, Head of the department (SMIT and UPES), UPES-2013-2018,2019-2021 and Dean, School of Technology, NEHU  apart from coordinating various activities like examination, Time table etc.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Sushabhan Choudhury has taught  the  courses like embedded system,IOT, wireless sensor network, electronics devices and circuits, Digital system Design, Digital and Analog Communication , VLSI Design , Data Communication and networking etc during his teaching career. He is quite able to balance teaching and research responsibilities. With teaching Prof. Sushabhan emphasises on developing  new pedagogical tools . He also always  emphasises on interactive classes.
Prof. Sushabhan has been the  Co-ordinator  for implementing Minors in AI,IOT, Robotics, Blockchain and Data analytic in UPES. His work has a strong focus on innovation, with an emphasis on outcome  such as preparing students for taking up various innovation challenges. Prof. Choudhury has also supervised various project works for undergraduate and postgraduate students in wide range of topics. He has also supervised a number of PhD students in the area of WSN, Embedded systems, IOT, AI etc
Prof. Sushabhan Choudhury   has taught  a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses as well as special topics in the area of electronics. For introductory undergraduate courses such as electronics, communication, and electronics devices, he prefers simulation based minor projects instead of assignments   which will help in developing   fundamental principles and  problem-solving strategies. In postgraduate courses  such as embedded systems, he   includes  a project of the students’ choice which will be beneficial for addressing societal needs and make students able to  not only build a  prototype model but also will make them gain first hand  knowledge about trouble shooting.
Profile Summary
Dr. Sushabhan Choudhury
Before joining UPES, Prof. Sushabhan was at  NEHU, Shillong . He also worked in  SMIT  at various positions including Professor and  head of the department. He was also Academic planning coordinator for Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology.
Prof. Sushabhan has received Award of Excellence in Research from the UPES, 2016. He was also awarded for the outstanding achievement in SMIT for setting up state of the art lab in nanotechnology. He was a CO_PI for a project of Rs. 12 Lakhs  granted  from Ornate Agencies Private Ltd.. He was also the PI  for a project granted by DST  for Improvement of S&T Infrastructure in Universities and Higher Educational Institutions (FIST) Program: Granted Rs. 1.14Crore in 50:50 mode.  He was  also the PI for  for a project titled  “High performance Polymer-single wall carbon nanotube composites for potential applications to spacecraft, defence    and electronics”, amount Sanctioned by AICTE: 20 LAKHS.He is  the inventor for eleven  patents which have been granted and also for several published  patents. Apart from  publishing a large number of research papers in Scopus and SCI indexed journals , he has authored six books in the area of Embedded systems, smart agriculture etc.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy