Research Interests
Dr. Bhavana Gupta is known for her work in material design for addressing environmental and energy crises. She talks on the problems of cost-effectiveness, sustainability, and efficiency. She has developed several novel methods for the synthesis of functional materials and their practical uses. For example, during her postdoctoral research tenure in France, the first proof-of-principle of wireless actuation in conducting polymer was demonstrated. Her eight years of expertise doing international research at many prestigious institutes will be helpful in setting up state-of-the-art research facilities and fostering long-term partnerships between Indian and foreign institutes.
Synthesis of materials and understanding of their properties in pure and modified form. Conventional and bipolar electrochemistry, atomic force microscopy and scanning electrochemical microscopy instrumental technique energy storage, hydrogen generation, CO2 fixation and soft robotics applications.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
bhavana.gupta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Dr. Bhavana's teaching philosophy supports the idea that interacting with young people can help one comprehend a subject more thoroughly and enthusiastically. She likes to teach using the most recent research in the field while also following the prescribed curriculum in a way that would prepare the students for future challenges and encourage independent thought. Her objective would also be to host forums where teachers and students could participate in an open debate on scientific issues. Her interest is to cultivate a research propensity in the student by illustrating the fundamental ideas through experiments.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Bhavana completed her doctorate from the Indian Institute of Technology, BHU, in 2013, prior to joining UPES. She travelled to Kyushu Institute of Technology in Japan as part of the JENESYS program while pursuing her PhD. She was selected for the esteemed Blaustein postdoctoral scholarship after receiving her PhD, which allowed her to work at Ben Gurion University of Negev, Israel, and then for the IdEx postdoctoral fellowship, which allowed her to work at Bordeaux University, France. She was also an assistant professor at the Institute of Physical Chemistry in Poland and a distinguished professor at Henan University in China. She also made brief study work visits to South Korea.
Dr. Bhavana Gupta
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Bhavana Gupta has published more than 60 peer-reviewed articles independently and in collaboration with national and international multidisciplinary teams. She is an active reviewer of various journals and the theses of doctoral students. She has handled three scientific projects funded by agencies in India, China, and the European Union successfully. She is helping students approach the hosting laboratory to write proposals for postdoctoral research grants supported by different international funding agencies.
Dr. Bhavana teaches a course in physical chemistry that includes thermodynamics, kinetics, and electrochemistry. Her focus is on the transition from classical to statistical physical chemistry. Other than that, she also reflects her interest in teaching industrial chemistry, materials chemistry, and instrumentation.
Contacts
Applied Science
Ramanujan Fellowship 2023; Best paper award of the year 2021 (Institute of Physical Chemistry, Polish Academy of Science, Poland); Awarded Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme-2020; Received IdEx Postdoctoral Fellowship, Bordeaux University, France-2016; Awarded Blaustein Postdoctoral Fellowship, Israel-2015; Awarded DST-INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship, India-2012. Awarded CSIR-Nehru Postdoctoral Fellowship, India-2012. Awarded Dr. D. S. Kothari Postdoctoral Fellowship, India-2012. Selected for JENESYS program in Kyushu Institute of Technology, Fukuoka, JAPAN 2010. AICTE award for Ph.D. students “National Doctoral Fellowship” 2009.
Teaching Philosophy