Chhotelal Kumar has qualified Graduation Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) 2016, 2018, and 2019.
Research Interests
Chhotelal.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Chhotelal Kumar has published research articles in reputed journals. He is an IEEE member. He has reviewed many articles in reputed journals and conferences.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Chhotelal Kumar has taught a spectrum of subjects vital for GATE Computer Science and Placement preparation. He has adeptly guided students through fundamental data structures and algorithms, advanced concepts like computer networks, database management systems, and theoretical areas encompassing automata theory and formal languages. Through interactive teaching, he has aimed not only to impart knowledge but also to foster a deep understanding and a passion for the ever-evolving world of computer science.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Chhotelal Kumar’s teaching philosophy focuses on creating an interactive and adaptable learning environment. He prioritizes individualized instruction, critical thinking, practical application, and real-world connections. His aim is to nurture a lasting passion for learning and empower students to confidently tackle challenges in their academic and professional journeys.
Assistant Professor
Chhotelal Kumar submitted his Ph.D. thesis titled ‘Improved Item Embedding and Preferential Schemes for Session-based Recommendation Systems’ to the National Institute of Technology Patna (NITP) in July 2023. He holds an M.Tech-IT degree from NITP, earned in 2020, and a B.Tech-IT degree from Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, West Bengal, acquired between 2011 and 2015.
Chhotelal Kumar joined UPES in July 2023 as an assistant professor. Before joining UPES, he taught several subjects for gate computer science and interview placements from June 2015 to July 2018. During that period, he facilitated comprehensive lectures, and guided students through intricate concepts. He helped students refine their problem-solving skills and boost their confidence for placement interviews.
Contact
Chhotelal Kumar
Recommendation System I Data Mining I Machine Learning I Deep Learning I Information Retrieval I Emotion Recognition
Teaching Philosophy