Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
His approach to education is to focus on developing a positive and stimulating learning environment that encourages critical thinking and intellectual development. He thinks that education is a collaborative process that requires active engagement, inquiry, and exploration rather than just the transmission of knowledge from teacher to student.
Dr. Varun has been in academia for the last 18 years. Before joining UPES, he served at Jagannath International Management School, New Delhi, affiliated with Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University. As an academician, he has not only fulfilled the teaching responsibilities but also, at the same time, takes pride in guiding students in academic and professional development. He supervises research projects and encourages student participation in extracurricular activities, hackathons, and competitions.
Close
Dr. Varun is also actively involved in research and contributed to the advancement of computer science through publications in reputable journals and conference proceedings. His research interests include applications of machine learning and deep learning. He has published a total of 40+ research papers, 6 patents, and edited three books.
School of Computer Science
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
The subjects that Dr. Varun teaches are the ideal combination of core subjects and specialisation subjects. He is proficient in fundamental disciplines like C and C++, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Python, Software Engineering, DBMS, Web Technologies, and Machine Learning.
Committed to lifelong learning, Dr. Varun regularly attends conferences, workshops, and seminars to stay updated with the latest developments in computer science.
Varun Sapra
Dr. Varun Sapra is a highly-motivated and experienced computer science professional with a profound understanding of the field and a passion for sharing knowledge. He is an accomplished academic professional with 18 years of experience in both academia and industry. Holding a Ph.D. in Computer Science, he brings a wealth of expertise to his teaching and research endeavours. He has an impressive track record of instructing both undergraduate and graduate courses in various computer science subjects. His core interest areas cover topics such as programming languages, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and software engineering. By employing innovative teaching methods, he engages students and cultivates critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Profile Summary
Contact
varun.sapra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy