Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
As an educator, Soumen believes that it is student’s responsibility to get knowledge from the teachers as much as possible. However, the responsibility of teachers is making all students interested towards the subject so that they are happy to learn. Soumen uses his information sharing capabilities and interacts with the students in a best possible way so that students can approach to him as much as they can. This is the first step for making a good classroom environment. Soumen tries to attend each student’s difficulties by maintaining a thin line of teacher-student relationships. He believes that exploring student’s ideas and handle them in a careful way also develop the respective faculty as a teacher and as a learner.
University scholarship in his bachelor’s degree.
Soumen Paul
Faculty
Government merit scholarship for higher secondary examination
Scholarly Activities
soumen.paul@ddn.upes.ac.in
Soumen is primarily interested in research fields such as computer vision, multi-modal analysis, speech recognition, and ontology modelling. Along with that, he is recently working on semantic interpretation of video data, video segmentation, and multimodal fusion.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Soumen has been teaching Database Management System, Design Analysis and Algorithm, and Data Structure to the BTech 1st and 2nd year students.
UGC-NET JRF scholarship in his doctoral tenure.
Soumen is involved in different scholarly activities from his PhD tenure. His research work has been published in multiple renowned journals and conferences. He has also handled multiple research projects funded by government and private agencies. Currently, he has a dedicated interest in multiple research collaborations, gathering fundings from government and private agencies, and building start-ups.
Soumen Paul is currently associated in UPES Dehradun as an assistant professor with a strong background in education and research. Before joining UPES, he has submitted his doctoral dissertation to Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur in 2024. He completed his master’s from Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines) Dhanbad in the year of 2019. His bachelor’s was done from Institute of Engineering and Management Kolkata in the year of 2012. In his current role in UPES, Soumen serves as a faculty member teaching core computer science subjects to the students. He is known for his teaching style that motivates the students to engage in the respective subjects. He has a broad interest in computer vision research in the field of multi-modal video data. Soumen has published several research papers in reputed journals and conferences.
Before joining UPES, Mr. Soumen has also served as a software engineer in Cognizant Technology Solutions for more than four years.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Contact
Teaching Philosophy