Dr. Inder Singh has published and presented numerous research papers in reputable international journals and conferences. He has also chaired sessions at various national and international conferences. He has supervised several Ph.D. scholars in the areas of Recommended Systems, Sentiment Analysis, Machine Learning, Computer Networks, and Cloud Security. He has also mentored postgraduate and undergraduate projects. He has published a textbook and several book chapters. He has received national and international certifications in the areas of Information Technology.
Research Interests
Prof. Inder’s keen interest is to teach Programming Languages such as Python, R, JAVA, PHP, JavaScript, and C/C++. During his association with the School of Computer Science, UPES, he taught Computer Networks, Cloud Computing, Data Mining, and Web Technologies. After joining the School of Business, UPES, he has been teaching Big Data Analytics, Business Analytics, Natural Language Processing, Programming for Analytics, and Web Designing and Development to undergraduate and postgraduate management students.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Prof. Inder Singh worked with IMS, Dehradun. He has over 20 years of work experience, which is an amalgamation of industry and the teaching profession. He taught B.Tech. (CSE) and M.Tech (CSE) students from 2008 to 2022. Currently, he is mentoring Management students in the areas of Big Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing (NLP), and Digital Transformation.
Scholarly Activities
Prof. Inder has received several Letters of Appreciation for his contribution to research. He received a Certificate of Appreciation for his exemplary work as an instructor for training over one hundred faculty members faculties for Hybrid, Blended and Online Learning at UPES. Prof. Inder was felicitated for his exceptional contribution to managing the faculty’s teaching load and timetable.
Prof. Inder believes that the essential responsibility of an academician is to teach innovatively by using different pedagogical tools and mentoring the students for their overall grooming. He engages in developing curriculum, advising students, and supervising graduate research projects, contributing to the academic growth and development of the students. He serves on committees, reviews manuscripts for journals, evaluates research proposals, and participates in accreditation processes. Prof. Inder collaborates with colleagues from his institution and other universities or research centers. He is interested in collaborative research projects, interdisciplinary initiatives, and partnerships with industry or community organizations to enhance the impact and reach of his scholarly work.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Inder Singh
Profile Summary
Prof. Inder's teaching philosophy includes active student participation, collaboration, and critical thinking. His emphasis is on Experiential Learning, Technology Integration, Student-centered Learning, and Real-World Relevance. He believes that each student should have the desire to become a lifelong learner. Students should have a growth mindset and a commitment to continuous improvement.
School of Business
Contact
AI & ML | Big Data Analytics | Business Analytics | Cloud Native Technologies | IoT
inder@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy