Research Interests
"Evolution of Media and Entertainment Law: A Study" (Book Chapter, Book Title: Dynamics of Media and Entertainment Law
Family Law I Constitutional Law I Contract Law
"From fault to no-fault: irretrievable breakdown of marriages as a ground of divorce" (NIU International Journal of Human Rights, ISSN 2394-0298, Volume 9(XI), 2022, pp. 174–184) (UGC Care List Journal)
He is the recipient of the Hiralal Daga Memorial Medal and the University Law Union Prize for Law, awarded for being the best candidate in the LL.B. Examinations held in the year 2011 (University topper).
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Mr. Mittal teaches Contract Law and Family Law. He has also taught subjects such as the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, the Limitation Act, 1963, Transfer of Property and Easement Laws, Right to Information, and the Law of Torts, among others.
Scholarly Activities
"Same-sex relationships in India: An Emerging Jurisprudence" (Anvesak, ISSN: 0378-4568, UGC Care-listed Journal, Volume 52, No. 9(1), July–December 2022, pp. 49–57)
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Mr. Mittal specializes in family law and constitutional law and has interdisciplinary research interests in criminal law. Before joining UPES, he worked at the School of Law at the ICFAI University, Dehradun, where he taught courses like Law of Contract, Family Law, Right to Information, etc. He completed his B.Com. (Hons.) from Delhi University. Regarding legal education, he earned his LL.B. and LL.M. degrees from the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi. Currently, he is pursuing his Ph.D. from the School of Law, UPES, Dehradun.
He believes it is his job to foster an environment where students feel comfortable asking questions and exploring concepts. He uses various "flipping the classroom" techniques in his classes, such as having students do pre-reading tasks before class, followed by a quick exam over what they've learned. Instead of reviewing concepts covered in quizzes, they use them to structure in-class activities where students apply what they've learned to real-world scenarios. When students work on real-world challenges, they can progress from simplistic to sophisticated solutions.
He has more than a dozen articles to his credit, published in law journals of national and international repute. His most recent publications include:
Profile Summary
gaurav.mittal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor
Gaurav Mittal
Contact
"Comparative Analysis of Layoff and Retrenchment Law with Respect to the Evolving Ambit of the Industrial Relations Code, 2020" (Book Chapter, Title of Book: Labour Reforms in India: Issues and Challenges in Current Legal Perspectives, Published by Iterative International Publishers, First Volume, ISBN-978-93-5747-014-8, pp. 20–26)
Mr. Gaurav Mittal began his academic career in 2014 at the School of Law, The ICFAI University, Dehradun, and taught various courses during that tenure. After teaching at ICFAI University for nearly 3.5 years, he joined the School of Law at the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun, in 2018 and has been associated with this prestigious institution ever since.
Teaching Philosophy