Dr. D.P. Singh has been awarded his Ph.D. thesis titled ‘Investigation of the Role of Break-up Processes in Heavy Ion Reactions Below 7 MeV/Nucleon; in Experimental Nuclear Physics in 2010 from the Department of Physics, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh in collaboration with Inter University Accelerator Centre New Delhi. He has also been awarded his M.Phil. titled ‘Analysis of Fractional Quantum Hall Effect’ in 2003 from the Department of Physics, Institute of Basic Sciences, Khandari, Agra. After completing his Ph.D., he has been engaged in teaching and research at various institutions. He has also completed two funded research projects sanctioned by SERB-DST Government of India. One student has been awarded a Ph.D. Degree with him. Dr. Singh has published more than 75 research articles in national and international journals of repute and presented more than 100 research papers at national and international conferences and symposia. He is also a Life Member of the Indian Physics Association (IPA) and Indian Association of Physics Teachers (IAPT).
Research Interests
Dr. Singh strongly believes that teaching is an opportunity for continual learning and growth and the most effective way to transfer knowledge. Physics can be learned more efficiently only when both teacher and students enjoy what they are discussing. To achieve efficient learning by students, he uses a combination of formal lecture periods and smaller discussion sections. He employs various assessment strategies to fairly assess students’ learning. Dr. Singh treats his students with the utmost respect and generates a friendly environment so that the students can candidly discuss topics that they might otherwise be hesitant to address.
Project Associate I by IUC-DAE-CSR Kolkata 2005.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
Before joining UPES in November 2014, Dr. Singh worked as Young Scientist (DST-SERB) in the Department of Physics at Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India from July 2012 to November 2014. Along with this, he was also engaged in teaching at the Department of Physics at Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh in the role of guest faculty, and acted as a faculty at Gwalior Institute of Information Technology, Gwalior, India from June 2010 to March 2012. He has also been engaged in teaching activities at the Department of Physics, Sri Varshney Degree College, Aligarh, India July 2001–June 2002 & July 2003–June 2004.
Faculty
Dr. Singh is interested in Nuclear Reaction Mechanism through various nuclear reactions viz; pre-equilibrium emission, fusion, and fission reactions, etc., using light and heavy ion interactions at energies near the Coulomb barrier to the well above it (below 10MeV/nucleon). He is also interested in Surface activity Measurements using Thin Layer Activation technique using light and heavy charged particles referred over conventional surface phenomena measurement methods. Furthermore, in the production of various radionuclides, applicable in advanced technological tools used in nuclear medicine. A reliable pathway for the production of these radionuclides is required to meet the high demand for these isotopes.
Scholarly Activities
“Observation of heavy ion reactions at energies below 10 MeV/nucleon” Beam Time sanctioned by IUAC, New Delhi wide file: IUAC/XIII.3A/ dated August 1st, 2019.
Junior Research by DST, New Delhi 2008.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
devendrapal@ddn.upes.ac.in
As an Experimental Nuclear Physics scholar, Dr. Singh has been a part of several research experiments performed at IUAC New Delhi. He has published more than 75 research articles in national and international journals of repute and presented more than 100 research papers at national and international conferences and symposia. There are 5 scientific/technical reports in his credit. One student has also been awarded his Doctorate degree under his supervision. His research articles have more than 1500 citations with h/i10 index 20/38.
As a physics teacher, Dr. Singh is interested in utilizing his teaching skills for undergraduate and graduate-level students. He has taught various courses such as nuclear & particle physics, Classical Mechanics at undergraduate and graduate levels, and Engineering Physics for B. Tech courses. Further, he is able to teach most of the physics courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels, though, he prefers to teach courses on Atomic and Molecular Physics, Wave Mechanics, Electrodynamics, etc. He also envisions teaching and developing research-oriented electives based on his research background for the needs of MSc/MTech, Ph.D. students including Experimental techniques in Nuclear Physics.
Young Scientist by DST New Delhi 2011.
Profile Summary
Dr. D.P. Singh
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact
Research Grants:
Applied Science
“Investigation of fusion-fission reaction dynamics in heavy ion interactions” funded by DST-SERB, New Delhi wide file: ECR/2017/000641 dated March 16th, 2018. (2018-2022)
“Investigation of heavy ion reactions at low energies: Energy and mass asymmetry dependence of incomplete fusion” sanctioned by the DST, New Delhi, (2012 to 2015)
Teaching Philosophy