Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Close
Dr. Gupta has around 26 years of experience. Before joining UPES, he held a faculty position in the Department of Physics at the Northern India-based Technological Institute. During this tenure, he played a pivotal role in developing new courses and establishing laboratories.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Gupta is a distinguished academician. He has membership in numerous scientific and educational societies and serves as an editor and reviewer for reputed international journals. Dr. Gupta has made significant contributions to the field of research and has authored several books, including works on Nanoscience, Solar Photovoltaic, Electronics Engineering, Solid-state Devices and Circuits, and Experiment in Electrical Engineering. He has also written several book chapters in reputable publications.
rajeev@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Gupta's research is primarily focused on material science and nanotechnology, with a particular emphasis on polymer-based nanocomposite materials. His work revolves around understanding and optimizing the combination of materials with competing properties to create innovative and efficient solutions to complex technological challenges. Currently, he is actively involved in the study of nanocomposite superhydrophobic coatings for corrosion resistance in the metal industry, oleophobic coatings to reduce wax deposition and oil-water separation membranes for oil pipelines, as well as anti-dust and anti-icing coatings for solar panels, aircraft, and other devices in open areas. Additionally, he is also exploring antibacterial coatings.
Dr. Gupta has earned recognition for his research contributions, presenting numerous invited and keynote talks at national and international conferences in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. His published articles have been listed in the 'energy citation database' on the official website of the Department of Energy [DOE], USA. Additionally, he has received grants from government funding agencies to support his research activities.
Dr. Rajeev Gupta
Dr. Gupta's teaching philosophy centres around creating a nurturing and supportive learning environment that facilitates student learning. He encourages students to think critically, develop alternatives, and come up with innovative ideas. He incorporates elements of the flipping-the-classroom method, such as pre-reading assignments, to promote active engagement and meaningful discussions during class. By using real-world assignments, he reinforces the understanding gained from quizzes, encouraging the practical application of knowledge.
Profile Summary
As an experimental materials science scholar, Dr. Gupta has actively participated in various research experiments at IUAC New Delhi. He has published over 40 research articles in national and international journals of repute and presented more than 50 research papers at national and international conferences and symposia. Furthermore, he has supervised 10 Ph.D. students and was invited as a guest scientist by the research group Chair for Multicomponent Materials at the Institute for Materials Science, Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Germany. Dr. Gupta is a lifetime member of the Indian Physics Association.
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact
With extensive teaching experience, Prof. Gupta has instructed a diverse range of courses for both undergraduate and graduate students. Some of the courses he has taught include Quantum Mechanics, Solid State Physics, Statistical Physics, Electronics, Classical Dynamics, Elements of Modern Physics, Engineering Physics and Material Sciences.
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy