Sanjay Chaudhary
E-commerce
Research Interests
Presented papers at eleven international conferences.
Chartered Engineer, The Institution of Engineers (IE), India.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Life Fellow, Indian Electronics and Telecommunications Engineers (IETE), India.
Covid Warrior (Mothers’ Love NGO, Delhi in the Year 2021).
Sustainability
Published twelve research articles in reputed international journals.
Industry Fellow
Best Paper Award (International Conference, Amity University, Noida (2022) and BULMIM, New Delhi (2018)).
sanjay.chaudhary@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Industry Fellow (UPES), 2023 – Till date.
Supply Chain Management and Analytics
General Manager (Ericsson), 2010 - 2012.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Life member, All India Management Association (AIMA).
Others
Associate Professor (VIPS), 2014- 2022.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Inspiring Teacher (CMAI and WSIS (United Nations) in the Year 2020).
An active academician, Sanjay has seventeen years of work experience in the corporate sector too. A graduate of Indian Ivy League and reputed international institutes, he has expertise in the operations-supply chain-analytics domain. He is actively involved in a prestigious academic association and was awarded a fellowship by the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers and a Chartered Engineer designation by the Institution of Engineers, India. He has published several academic articles in reputed international journals and conference proceedings. A family man, he likes to travel and do fitness activities in his free time.
Registered Consultant, ADB and Consultancy Development Council, GOI.
Green Energy
E-commerce, Entrepreneurship Lab, Enterprise Resource Planning, Legal and Safety Aspects of Supply Chain, Management Information System, Operations Management, Production Planning and Control, Project Management, Supply Chain Analytics, and Supply Chain Management.
Profile Summary
E-governance
School of Business
Member, Communications Multimedia, and Infrastructure Association of India (CMAI).
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Experiential learning (project-based) and case study pedagogy is bought to the classroom for the benefit of students. The simulations and project-a-thons are used in courses to bring in interactivity and hands-on experience. The technology tools are suitably used in hybrid classroom set-ups. All courses are outcome-based and comply with national education policy (NEP 2020) and accreditation bodies' guidelines.
Webinar and seminar speaker/panellist.