Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Procedural Laws including Special Laws, CPC and CrPC, Organized Crimes, White-Collar Crimes, Human Trafficking, Constitution, Contract & Transaction etc.
Close
Arvind Singh Kushwaha is working as the Assistant Professor at the UPES School of Law, Dehradun. He has completed his B.A.LL.B. (Hons.) fom National University of Study and Research in Law (NUSRL), Ranchi and Masters (LL.M.) from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Punjab. He is also UGC-NET, SET and JRF qualified. He is a criminal lawyer turned academic person who is interested in application of the Procedural and Emerging laws. Much of his academic and research work focuses on functioning of criminal justice system.
Mr. Arvind has received the UGC-Junior Research Fellowship (June 2020). He also won 10th Sinha & Co. Intern Moot Court, 2018 and participated and finished as Semi-finalists with Best Memorial in 1st National Moot Court Competition, Haldia Law College, 2018.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Mr. Arvind has published several articles in well reputed, impact-factor and refereed journals of prestigious institutions such as University of Delhi, University of Rajasthan, University of Kerela, WBNUJS Kolkata, HNLU Raipur etc. He had successfully completed three Certificate Courses in Human Trafficking and Course on Law and Social Transformation. He was also part of IIT Jammu Winter School (2022) and ICSSR Sponsored Capacity Building Programmes (2022). Mr. Arvind has also presented several papers and attended conferences in different parts of India.
Mr. Arvind’s teaching philosophy is based on the practical application of the law learnt in the classrooms. He encourages student learning through real-world instances and illustrations. His teaching philosophy aligns with the jurisprudential perspective that views law not merely as an abstract set of rules but as a living, breathing entity that shapes the society. He also believes in the overall development of students and consequentially regularly inspire students to participate in other activities.
Arvind Singh Kushwaha
Profile Summary
Before joining UPES, Mr. Arvind S Kushwaha was working as Full time Senior Research Fellow (SRF) at the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi for 2 years and 6 months where he was pursuing his Ph.D. (Law) in Human Trafficking. He has also worked as an Advocate at different courts in Delhi and as Assistant Professor of Law at the Raffles University, Rajasthan.
Assistant Professor
arvind.kushwaha@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Mr. Arvind teaches the Code of Civil Procedure, Constitution and Indian Polity. Prior to this, he had also taught Organized Crimes and the law, Comparative Criminal law, Corporate and White-Collar Crimes, Affirmative Action & Discriminative Justice.
Teaching Philosophy