Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
Faculty
She was awarded with ‘University Scholarship Holder’ during LL.B. & LL.M. at Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar. She was awarded ‘Best Faculty Coordinator in University Fest’ in Law College Dehradun, Uttaranchal University in 2016. She was awarded ‘Best Faculty Award’ in College of Legal Studies, at University of Petroleum & Energy Studies in 2017. She is honoured with ‘Research Excellence Award’ at University of Petroleum & Energy Studies, Dehradun in 2023.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Dr Gagandeep Kaur’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that along with theoretical knowledge of legal provisions; it is of utmost importance to incorporate natural law philosophies, values and belief in teaching so that students become more empathic lawyers and judges. She provides a set of criteria standards to judge the quality of student assignments. She believes that is her responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. She has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class where they complete a short quiz. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Profile Summary
gkaur@ddn.upes.ac.in
In the domain of Cyber Law; she has authored four books namely ‘Jurisprudence of e-Commerce and Consumer Protection’; ‘Cyber Laws & IT Protection’, ‘Sports Law: Issues & Challenges’ and ‘Laws on Cloud Computing: Demystifying Laws, Policies & Privacy Compliances’. She is also editor of another book on ‘Emerging Dimensions of Cyber Law & IPR: Issues & Challenges in 21st Century’. She has published over 95 articles in peer reviewed, UGC, SCOPUS Indexed & Web of Science Journals. She has published several book chapters with Springer, Wiley, Palgrave Macmillan, Apple Academic Press & CRC Press. She has presented over 100 research papers in national and international conferences. She has judged several competitions on Moot Court, Trial Advocacy, Mediation and chaired technical Sessions in Conferences across India. She has been invited as a resource person as a professional speaker in various Workshops and FDPs.
Dr Gagandeep Kaur is LL.B. (Gold Medalist), LL.M. (Gold Medalist) & Ph.D. in Law with distinguished expertise in Cyber Law, Information Technology Law, Cyber Crimes & Data Security Law.  She has more than 14 years of teaching and research experience in prestigious Universities and presently associated with School of Law, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun as Associate Professor in Law.
Contact
Dr Gagandeep Kaur
Before joining UPES, Dr Gagandeep Kaur worked with the Rajiv Gandhi National Law University Patiala (Punjab), Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar (Punjab) and Law College Dehradun, Uttaranchal University (Uttarakhand). She is an experienced professor with a passion for mentoring students, research, teaching and delivering special lectures in the domain of Information & Communication Technology Law, Cyber Crime & Data Privacy Law.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr Gagandeep Kaur teaches the Information Technology Law, Cyber Crimes, e-Commerce, Digital Copyrights Law and IT Governance & Regulation. She teaches the application of legal provisions in regulating the contemporary challenges posed by internet & latest technology.