Dr. Rochak earned his Ph.D. from Delhi University, New Delhi, titled “Some Studies on mixed line rate (MLR) optical networks”, M. Tech. in “Digital Communication” from “G.B.T.U.” and B.Tech. from “C.S.J.M. University”. Dr. Rochak has an experience of around twenty-two years in higher education with different institutions and mentored many students for internships, projects, higher education and placements. He served as an Internship coordinator, Project coordinator, departmental NBA Team member, Assistant Head-International Relations in his previous organization.
Dr. Rochak Bajpai
Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Fiber optics, Nonlinearity in Fiber optics, Optical and Digital Communication, Stochastic modelling, Blockchain, Application of machine learning in communication.
Awards and Grants
Close
Teaching Research Fellowship to pursue the Ph.D., Best Paper Award in CCTES-18.
School of Computer Science
Rochak.bajpai@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Dr. Rochak worked as an assistant professor at KIET Group of Institutions, Delhi-NCR. He also served as an assistant professor at GLA University, Mathura.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Rochak, being a strong advocate of active learning, employs multiple ways to engage the students in learning process. It comprises of quizzes, discussions, historical perspective of the problem and case studies to identify the need of technology to solve the challenge. This approach foster the curiosity among the students to connect the theoretical learning frame with the proposed solutions and help the students to apply their knowledge and understanding to explore further.
Profile Summary
Optical Communication, Analog Electronics, Digital System Design, Linear Integrated Circuits, Advance Engineering Mathematics, MATLAB programming for Signals and Systems, MATLAB programming for Digital Signal Processing, MATLAB programming for Control Systems.
Dr. Rochak act as reviewer for many conferences and coordinated internship programs for B.Tech. students.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy