Research Interests
Journey of organ on a chip technology and its role in future healthcare scenario
S Arora, G Murmu, K Mukherjee, S Saha, D Maity - Journal of Biotechnology, 2022
Book chapters:
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Smriti Arora
Close
Smriti Arora, PhD teaches Microbiology and Molecular Biology of UG/PG students of Microbiology and B. Tech Biotechnology. She also teaches Bacteriology, Virology, Industrial Microbiology, Medical Microbiology, Biochemistry, Food Microbiology, and Agricultural and Microbial Ecology to UG and PG students of Microbiology.
Smriti is interested in following areas of Microbiology: (1) Innovative methods and devices to combat antimicrobial resistance, (2) Microbial interventions to combating microplastic pollution and (3) Epidemiology of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases
Falcipains: Biochemistry, target validation, and structure-activity relationship studies of inhibitors as antimalarials
S Arora, N Bhambri, S Puri, N Dasgupta, S Khater… - Microbiome, Immunity, Digestive Health and Nutrition, 2022
Faculty
A Thapa, R Kaushik, S Arora, S Jaglan, V Jaswal… - International Journal of Molecular Sciences, 2022
Scholarly Activities
A designer diet layout for astronauts using a microbiome mediated approach.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Currently working as an Assistant Professor at UPES, Dehradun since Aug 2020. Prior to joining UPES, Smriti Arora, PhD was a postdoctoral fellow at the Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Israel (BGU). She holds experience in both industry as well as academia. She worked in industries in Dubiotech, Dubai. Also worked as a DST Women Scientist-A at CSIR-IGIB. Besides, she also is a part-time faculty at AHRO University, Glasgow, UK teaching microbiology to nursing students. She volunteers for the High School Leadership program for an NGO called EK Kadam Aur Foundation.
S Arora, S Puri, N Bhambri - FEMS Microbiology Letters, 2022
J Patra, D Rana, S Arora, M Pal, N Mahindroo - European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 2023
smriti.arora@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Assistant Professor (SG)
A comprehensive overview of nanotechnology in sustainable agriculture
Journal articles:
The beneficial role of healthy microbiome in metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular health
Contact
Biological Activity of Picrorhiza kurroa: A Source of Potential Antimicrobial Compounds against Yersinia enterocolitica
Advances in Nanotechnology for Treatment of Women-Specific Cancers
Smriti Arora is a microbiologist cum biotechnologist with experience in bacterial genetics, structure-function analysis of complex biomolecules such as bacterial ribosomes, and studying enhancement of viral diseases using flaviviruses such as Zika and Dengue as model organisms. She received her PhD from the renowned Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore and Master's in Biotechnology from AIIMS, New Delhi. Post her PhD; she worked at companies Dubiotech, Dubai, and then moved on to CSIR-IGIB in her capacity as a DST WOS-A fellow to work on understanding protein folding in bacteria using state of the art next-generation sequencing platforms. She then moved on to doing her post-doctorate in clinical virology at the Ben Gurion University of Negev, Israel. At the Ben Gurion University of Negev, she was involved in developing a mouse model for enhancement of viral diseases, specifically flaviviruses, and in establishing a high throughput peptide microarray to identify signatures of enhancement of diseases using the power of artificial intelligence. She is a Global Outreach Member for the American Society for Microbiology (ASM) and an affiliate member of Microbiology Society.
S Arora, A Bishnoi, GV Bonde, A Mathur - Latest Advances in Diagnosis and Treatment of …, 2023
D Singh, A Mathur, S Arora, S Roy, N Mahindroo - Applied Surface Science Advances, 2022
Smriti Arora, PhD received the Best review award, 2022 from FEMS Microbiology Society along with a cash prize of 100 Euro. She held postdoctoral fellowship from Ben Gurion University, Israel. She also held DST women scientist-A grant (30 Lakhs) from GOI. She qualified for competitive examinations like CSIR-NET (stood amongst top 20% candidates), ICMR-JRF and, DBT-JRF. DBT, Government of India, and the Best oral presentation award with a cash prize by RNA meeting group, India also awarded her an incentive award for publications 2014. She also received a scholarship for Master’s in Biotechnology at AIIMS, New Delhi by DBT, GOI.
Teaching Philosophy
Smriti believes in Einstein’s philosophy, "Education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school.” Her teaching philosophy is to build on students' strengths and simultaneously work on their weaknesses. Engaging students in the classroom via model making, presentations, quick five questions, scrapbooks, graphics, and short videos are routinely done. Students are trained to think and design small projects in classrooms, building their confidence in research later in life. Smriti was instrumental in developing UG/PG curricula of Microbiology and designing the curriculum of B. Tech in Biomedical Engineering at UPES.