Research Interests
RSTA grant from IIT-D to participate in OneHealth (Spain) and COSHIP (Indonesia) conferences in 2023.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Chandra Mani Sharma
School of Computer Science
Distributed Systems & OS
Mr. Sharma has an intriguing journey spanning over a decade in academia, research, and entrepreneurship. He has been instrumental in the research and development of multimodal and explainable AI solutions for resource-constrained settings. He has served as an AI SME and speaker on All India Radio in two programs broadcasted across India from various radio stations. He worked as an SRF and JRF at IIT Delhi, where he also taught a course on Design Thinking and Innovation. Additionally, he is mentoring a couple of startups, including Abonics India Pvt. Ltd.
MHRD Fellowship 2009-11
Faculty
Design Thinking and User Centered Design
Deep Learning and ANN
Software Engineering & Project Management
Scholarly Activities
Mr. Sharma is the inventor of many patented technologies and the author of books, conference papers, and journal articles (around two dozen SCIE/Scopus indexed publications). He has been a part of various knowledge exchange and skill development initiatives at eminent institutes including IIT Delhi, Imperial College London, Central Universities, and other institutions of national importance. He has convened several hackathons, conferences, and faculty development programs.
Healthcare Informatics
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Profile Summary
Mr. Sharma considers himself a lifelong learner and regards his students as co-learners. His teaching philosophy centers around students, providing equal opportunities to think outside the box and learn through fun, hands-on experiences.
Teaching Excellence Award in 2013 from Inst. Of Tech & Sc.
Work experience of over 11 years with various reputed organizations.
Data Structures and Algorithms
He has research interests in mental healthcare informatics, explainable AI and NeuroPsych Design.
Applied Data Science and Machine Learning
Contact
cmsharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Software Engineering
Teaching Philosophy
Advanced Data Analytics