He is also Masters in English Literature from University of Allahabad, Allahabad (Central University) and Post Graduate Diploma in Mass Communication and Journalism from Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), New Delhi and has Certificate in IPR course of World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Geneva, Switzerland. He is UGC-NET qualified
Research Interests
Program Lead and Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
Marketing Management
Prof Tripathi is supervising six scholars on topics like Technology transfer, Sustainable leadership, Sustainable Development, Safety and operational issues in Aviation Industry . He has been mentoring the students through their dissertations and projects
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Media and communication
Dr Rajesh Tripathi with more than 18 years experience in field of Academics and Media and Journalism, holds a Doctorate degree in Strategic Management from prestigious Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Allahabad. He is Masters in Business Administration (M.B.A) from Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth (MGKV), a state government University, Varanasi.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Prof. Tripathi teaching philosophy stems from unearthing the grounded knowledge and blossoming it into a practical domain . He teaches with indigenously designed cases and has introduced new initiative known as Industry Reporting which facilitates students to makes them abreast of latest developments from business world
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Presently he is working as Programme Lead at School of Business, UPES Dehradun since. 2012 . Before joionh UPEs, He has worked in MNNIT Allahabad and was engaged in Media industrrt and Major research project of UGC, New Delhi. Dr Tripathi is teaching strategic Management as a subject along with other subjects like Business Ethics and Corporate Governance, IPR, Sustainability and media related subjects.
rajesh.tripathi@dn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Dr Rajesh Tripathi published and papers several research papers on strategic management, Business Models and other important research topics in national and international journals and international conferences held at IIMs and NITs. An avid case writer, Dr Tripathi’s cases are being taught in IIM Kolkatta and Concordia University, Canada
School of Business
His Research areas and interest are
He was also inducted in Circle of Achievement, Reynolds Centre of Business Journalism, Arizona State University, USA. He was nominated as Honorary Communication Scientist at Institute of Applied Science (IASc.), Allahabad (a Department of Science and Technology funded science institute). DR Tripathi has received Scroll of Honour from International Council of Jurists
Prof Tripathi has taught Strategic Management, Strategies for Sustainable Business, Business Ethics and Corporate Governance , IPR and Business Policy and other media and entrepreneurship related courses
Contact
IPR
Strategic Thinking/strategic Managenent
Rajesh Tripathi
Teaching Philosophy