Prof. Vishwakarma proudly believes that he is still a student and learns every day from his students. He believes every student has a lot of potential, and healthy classroom discussions can work wonders. His teaching philosophy creates a climate that supports and encourages students' active involvement and participation. He incorporates methods of studying legal topics by connecting them with current social issues, which helps students gain better clarity and understanding of the discussed issues. Using authentic problems helps students transition from novice to expert thinking.
akvishwakarma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Anil Kumar Vishwakarma works as an Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) in the School of Law at UPES, Dehradun. He has 9 years of teaching experience and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. on the topic "A comparative analysis of the regulators of Legal Education in India and the U.S.A" from the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun, Uttarakhand.
Scholarly Activities
Prof. Vishwakarma, as a Member of the Education Council – North Eastern India-ASEAN Chamber of Commerce & Industry, New Delhi, was invited to chair the session at the international conference on 'Role of Higher Education in Sustainable Development' held from May 12 to 15, 2017, organized by Nehda University in Cairo, Egypt. He received a certificate of recognition for presiding over the session as a "Resource person" for a one-week Compulsory Course for Senior Indian Forest Services (IFS) Officers on 'Environment Law, Policy & Governance in India: National and international Perspectives' from October 26th to 30th, 2020, at the School of Law, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun, India.
Courses Taught
Law of Evidence | Constitution | Interpretation of Statutes | Administrative Law | Law of Torts | Criminal Law | Legal Education.
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Prof. Vishwakarma teaches Law of Evidence, Constitution, Interpretation of Statutes, and Criminal Law.
Before joining UPES, Prof. Vishwakarma worked at Law Centre I, Faculty of Law, University of Delhi. It was an amazing journey teaching current serving IAS, IPS, IRS officers of the Government of India, along with other students in my class. It was challenging but filled with learning opportunities. He also taught at Lloyd Law College, Greater Noida. Additionally, he worked as a Legal Researcher at the National Green Tribunal (PB), New Delhi, with Justice Swatanter Kumar, Former Judge of the Supreme Court of India.
Prof. Vishwakarma authored the book titled "The Institution of Lokpal in India- Exploring the viability to arrest Corruption," foreworded by Justice Swatanter Kumar, Judge of the Supreme Court of India, available at: (https://www.amazon.in/Institution-Lokpal-India-Exploring-Corruption/dp/9380222947). His article, "Intellectual Property Rights and Public Policy on the Role of Plain Packaging and Health Care in India, Anil Kumar and Angerhofer, Maria Devi (2021)," was published in the "Indonesian Journal of International Law: Vol. 18: No. 4, Article 2," DOI: 10.17304/ijil.vol18.4.820, available at: (https://scholarhub.ui.ac.id.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Anil Kumar Vishwakarma