Dr. Banerjee has a passion for teaching and he believes research through teaching and teaching through research. He likes to teach courses very much relevant to computer science and communication Engineering curriculum and believes in teaching in a lucid way, to motivate students and to make student knowledgeable in the courses being taught. He always believes in adopting modern pedagogy of teaching and always plan for special guidance for PG students and to map teaching curriculum with latest trends in research.
Research Interests
Dr. Banerjee was awarded as the Best Faculty in 2023 at Dr. B.C. Roy Engineering College for his outstanding contribution in research/publications and teaching. His work was awarded as Best Research progress in IEEE, ICC Covid-19 Congress at Bangladesh, July 2020.   He was selected as an Organizing chair in IEEE conference in 2022 and 2020. He was also Judge of technical events by department of Youth services and sports, Govt. of West Bengal August 2019, and Judge of the Kavach Hackatron from MHRD.  His name is enlisted in the world scientific index through AD scientific index from 2021. On the social and humanitarian platform, he was also elected as the Vice President of Lions Club city centre Durgapur in 2022.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Rajib Banerjee
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Over the years Dr. Banerjee taught many courses and due to his versatile oratory skills, he has been always a favourite teacher to the students. Dr. Banerjee is a skilled teacher in the domain of computer and sensor/mobile related communication technology and communication Engineering. He taught many courses such as Computer Networks, Wireless sensor network, Communication Engineering, Internet of things (IoT), Internet technology, Wireless and mobile communication, Image Processing, Digital Electronics, Analog and digital electronics, Computer organization, Microprocessors, Computer graphics.
DR. RAJIB BANERJEE received Ph.D. (Engineering) from Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, West Bengal, India, an Institute of National importance under MHRD. Earlier in his career he also received Master of technology, M.Tech, in Electronics and Communication Engineering and is also an alumni of prestigious University of Pune . He has published many research articles in SCI journals, patents, and peer reviewed IEEE conferences. He is a member of IEEE and was also IEEE Student branch counsellor. He has organized many IEEE events and has also served as organizing chairs in peer reviewed IEEE conferences. At present he is supervising three PhD candidates. During the Covid-19 phase, Dr. Banerjee is credited for development of hybrid sanitizer and low- cost Oxygen concentrator. His research interest includes Wireless Sensor Networks, Wireless multimedia sensor network, low power multimedia processing, Internet of things (IoT) and Bio-engineering.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, Dr. Banerjee was working as an Associate Professor in Electronics and Communication Engineering Department at Dr. B.C. Roy Engineering college, Durgapur. He holds many administrative positions such as Departmental R&D co-ordinator and headed many Institutes level professional and technical committees.  He also headed many committees at Institute and department level during NBA and NAAC accreditation. Dr. Banerjee has an overall 22 years of work experience including 19 years in academics and research and 3 years of Industrial experience.
Profile Summary
Dr. Banerjee, research interest includes Wireless Sensor Networks, Wireless multimedia sensor network, low power multimedia processing, Internet of things (IoT) and Bio-engineering. He believes in teaching through the concept of research and is now supervising 3 PhD scholars, out of which 1 PhD scholar’s defence is waited for being awarded.
Contact
rajib.banerjee@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Banerjee has published many research papers in SCI journals, peer reviewed conferences. He has three granted design patents and four published utility patents. Dr. Banerjee was the organizing chair of IEEE conference, IEEE MESIICON in 2022 and IEEE-NCSTEA in 2020 and received an Indian government grant from Science, Engineering and Research board (SERB) for IEEE MESIICON Conference in 2022.  During Covid-19 first phase Prof. Banerjee along with a team of Indo-American collaboration was credited with development of hybrid sanitizer system. Moreover, during the second phase of covid -19, Dr. Banerjee along with Indo- American collaborators was credited with the development of Indigenous low-cost oxygen concentrator. He has been invited as a Keynote speaker by many professional societies such as IEI(I), IEEE and at Regional Science Congress Government of West Bengal in 2024.
Teaching Philosophy