Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
School of Computer Science
Touseef Iqbal teaches a range of subjects in the field of computer science, which includes Data structure and algorithms, Operating systems, Python, NLP, Image Processing, Linux, Computer vision, Machine learning with real-world applications.
Faculty
Touseef Iqbal’s teaching philosophies reflect his perspective on how students learn best and how to effectively facilitate the learning process. His teaching philosophies include essentialism, progressivism, constructivism, perennialism, behaviourism, humanism, and social constructivism.
Computer Vision I Visual Learning I Machine Learning I Artificial Intelligence I Image processing I NLP I GenAI
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
touseef.iqbal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Dr. Touseef Iqbal
Touseef Iqbal is an accomplished individual with a strong educational background and expertise in various areas of computer science and engineering. He has obtained a B. Tech in CSE from Islamic University of Science and Technology, M. Tech CSE from Central University of Jammu and  Ph.D. from NIT Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir. His expertise lies in various domains, including image processing, computer vision, machine learning, Natural Language Processing and Generative AI. These areas involve the application of computational methods to analyse, understand, and interpret images and Text Data. He has made notable contributions to the field of computer science and engineering through his publications. He has authored a significant number of research papers published in SCI and Scopus-indexed journals. The high impact factor of these publications indicates their influence and recognition within the academic community. Furthermore, his work has also been featured in conferences and book chapters, contributing to the collective knowledge and understanding of the subject.
Contact
Before joining UPES, Touseef Iqbal has no academic experience
Teaching Philosophy