Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Umra Rashid
She is UGC NET qualified.
Dr. Umra has published a good number of articles under the ABDC category and Scopus Q1 indexed and several articles are under communication/forthcoming in reputed journals such as Business Strategy and the Environment (Ranked ABDC – A, ABS – 3), the Asia Pacific Journal of Tourism Research (Ranked ABDC – A), Research in International Business and Finance (RIBAF), (Ranked ABDC – A, ABS-2), with publishers such as Elsevier, Wiley, and Taylor & Francis.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Umra teaches Portfolio Management, Corporate Finance, Marketing of Financial Services, Financial Accounting, Business Accounting, Financial Management etc.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Before joining UPES, Dr. Umra was an Assistant Professor (finance), at the New Delhi Institute of Management, New Delhi. She has recently defended her doctoral thesis in Finance at the Department of Business Administration, Aligarh Muslim University (A reputed Central University) in India.
umra.rashid@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Capital Structure| Financial Performance| Sustainability| ESG| Defi| NFTs| Derivatives| Review Methodologies| Quantitative analysis| Qualitative analysis.
Dr. Umra’s approach to teaching is based on encouraging critical thinking, hands-on learning, and a comprehensive grasp of finance. She believes in creating an inclusive and engaging learning environment that encourages students to explore the complexities of financial theory and practice. Her goal is to instil a passion for lifelong learning and equip students with the analytical and practical skills necessary for success in the ever-evolving field of Finance.
Dr. Umra Rashid is a recognised Finance area professor with core expertise in Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management, Corporate Finance, and sustainable Finance domains. She looks forward to sharing the value-added management education with management students and professionals.
She has also reviewed the reputed journals listed in the ABDC and Scopus categories. These accomplishments underscore her ability to conduct high-quality research and generate valuable insights.
School of Business
She is committed to creating an inclusive learning environment that values diversity and promotes equity. Recognising the importance of diverse perspectives in academia, she actively seeks to amplify underrepresented voices and create opportunities for all students to thrive.
Contact
Dr. Umra received the Best Paper for the conference title “Mapping the Landscape of Capital Structure and Sustainability: A Bibliometric Review” at the 3 International Conference on Reinventing Business Practices, Start-ups, and Sustainability, held at the SRM Institute of Science and Technology Vadapalani Campus.
Teaching Philosophy