Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Prof. Vijendra has led multidisciplinary teams on an international collaborative project with the University of Dayton, Ohio, USA, Universidad International de La Rioja, Madrid, Spain, São Paulo State University, Brazil, and Providence University, Taiwan. He has published his research works with his international collaborators. He has also organized international events jointly with international collaborators. He has successfully organized big international events as a lead role/Organizing Chair including Elsevier International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering (ICMLDE 2022), UPES, Dehradun, India; Elsevier International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Data Science (ICCIDS2019), Delhi-NCR, India; Elsevier International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Data Science (ICCIDS2018), Delhi-NCR, India. He has led four international workshops in association with IBM Research Lab. India. He has been invited to conduct a workshop at VIT, Vellore, Providence University, and an FDP session at Jaypee University of Information Technology, Solan. He has led the organizing of invited industry expert talks from Accenture, IBM, TCS, Axtria, Fidelity International, and InfoEdge. His work has a strong approach to innovation where impact is a key factor.
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Vijendra is a professor in the School of Computer Science at UPES, Dehradun, India. Before his appointment at UPES, he was a Partner at Machlearn Systems, and an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at NorthCap University, India where he was Chairman, Department Research activities and handled tasks of the constitution of SRC committees, Pre Ph.D. course work, and Ph.D. proposals. He worked at Mody University, India, and Asian CERC Information Technology Ltd, Bangalore. He has more than 20 years of experience in research and teaching including in the IT industry.
Prof. Vijendra teaches courses and labs in the specialization of artificial intelligence and machine learning. He taught Pre Ph.D. courses including Big Data, Natural Language Processing, and Machine Learning. At the M Tech level, he taught Big Data Analytics, Spatial-Temporal Data Analytics, Foundation of Data Science, Soft Computing, Advanced Computer Networks, Advanced Computer Architecture, and Parallel Computing. At the B Tech level, he taught Data Mining and Warehousing, Operating Systems, Computer Networks, Network Programming, Statistics in Data Science, Computer Architecture, Hadoop, Big Data, DSA, DAA, ADBMS, DBMS, Artificial Intelligence, and Big Data Search.
Prof Vijendra is working as a Professor in the School of Computer Science at The University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India. He received his Ph.D. degree in Engineering and M. Tech degree in Computer Science and Engineering from Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, India. He is working in Machine Learning and has gained research experience in medical and healthcare applications. He has published research articles in high-impact factor SCI and SCOPUS journals. He has served as Editor in Chief, Procedia Computer Science, Elsevier for - Vol 218- 2023, Vol 167-2020 and Vol 132-2018. Dr Vijendra has also served as Associate Editor, BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making, Springer Nature; Editor, BMC Digital Health, Springer Nature; Editorial Board Member, IJIDS, Inderscience, UK. He has successfully organized big international events as a lead role/Organizing Chair. He is an Evaluator of Funded Projects for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, (France) and Department of Science and Technology, Govt of India.
Dr. Vijendra Singh
Prof. Vijendra views teaching as a significant and rewarding part of his career as a researcher. He has extensive experience in teaching as an instructor for several courses in computer science. Challenges in instructing graduate and postgraduate students for him is finding ways to bring the students down into the nuts and bolts of the course and develop a system-level design approach without squandering their initial enthusiasm from the higher-level discussion. He found that allowing breadth in their final thesis/project report let the students explore any aspect of the topic of their interest while the tests and programming assignments provided a more hands-on working knowledge of computer algorithms in real-life implementation.
Contact
Prof. Vijendra received a grant (SERB/F/4281/2022-2023) from SERB, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. He also received a grant for international travel support from Providence University, Taiwan to participate Summer Immersion Programme in Taiwan.
vijendra.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Vijendra’s major research concentration has been in the areas of data mining, medical imaging, Data Science, Natural Language Processing, machine learning, and deep learning. He has published 100 scientific papers. His research has been published in high-impact factor SCI and SCOPUS journals. He has guided three Ph.D. students and 9 M.Tech dissertations.
Teaching Philosophy