Research Interests
ahusain@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Husain’s research interests include the Quasilinear System of Partial Differential Equations, Analytical and Numerical Solutions of Nonlinear Wave Problems in Gas-dynamics, Hyperbolic System of Conservation Laws, and Lie Group Analysis for Partial Differential Equations.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Akmal Husain
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Akmal Husain received his doctorate (Ph.D.) from the Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi. His research expertise lies broadly in non-linear wave propagation phenomena in gas dynamics. Currently, his research focuses on mathematical and numerical solutions of hyperbolic partial differential equations governing gas-dynamic flow problems. Dr. Husain serves as an inspiration to his students and actively supports their personal and professional development.
Dr. Akmal Husain was awarded a UGC research fellowship for the period 2007-2009. In addition, the Department of Science and Technology (DST), India, granted him a Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) for the period 2009-2010 to work on a project named "Evolving Core Group Research Facilities at Banaras Hindu University."
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Husain places a strong emphasis on motivating learners through fundamental clarity. He encourages critical thinking and a positive attitude. Additionally, he skillfully adapts the pace of instruction to match students' learning speeds and presents cutting-edge concepts in an intriguing manner to foster a sense of eagerness among students which motivates them to delve deeper into the subject matter.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Husain is currently involved in teaching Science and Engineering undergraduates. He teaches Engineering Mathematics I and II, Discrete Mathematics, Integral Calculus, Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations, Linear Algebra, Complex Analysis, etc. He is also involved in Lab courses such as Python programming and MATLAB.
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Husain served as an Assistant Professor at Ideal Institute of Technology, Ghaziabad, for a period of two years. During this time, he actively engaged in teaching and mentoring undergraduate students. He was also associated with Aligarh Muslim University as a Guest Faculty for one year at the Department of Applied Mathematics.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Applied Science
Dr. Akmal Husain has published various articles in esteemed national and international journals. He also served as a Reviewer in various journals of international repute. In addition to this, he was also involved in developing various curricula at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Teaching Philosophy