Data Structures using C?
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
She received the best thesis award in M. Tech CSE from IIIT Jabalpur. Her innovation self-powered ‘Sanirobo’, has garnered nationwide recognition during the COVID times. She has been awarded several design patents and copyrights filed under UPES Dehradun.
Shubhi Sharma is a M.Tech Graduate in Computer Science and Engineering. Her research interest is Medical Imaging Analysis, Machine Learning in Healthcare, Deep Learning for Biomedical Applications, Pattern Recognition, Data Mining in Medical Images. She acquired B.Tech (IT) from Uttarakhand Technical University, Dehradun, M.Tech (Computer Engineering) from IIIT Jabalpur, and pursuing PhD from UPES, Dehradun. She published several SCI/Scopus-indexed research articles in reputed Journals. She is working as a Student Branch Coordinator of the most coveted Student Chapter Computer Society of India (UPES-CSI). She is a proud certified faculty with e PGCAP (Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice) program.
Close
School of Computer Science
Advance Database Management Systems
She is a proud member of the Post Graduate Certification in Academic Practises (PGCAP) program's certified faculty.
Healthcare Analytics
Assistant Professor at Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun - (July 2014 – February 2015)
Faculty
Theory of Computation
Scholarly Activities
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ObFCPokAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Assistant Professor at National Institute of Technology, Delhi – (March 2015 – December 2016)
LinkedIn-
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Deep Learning
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) at UPES Dehradun- (August 2017 – Present)
Her research focuses on developing advanced machine learning and deep learning techniques for the identification and diagnosis of breast cancer. By leveraging the power of artificial intelligence, I aim to improve the accuracy, efficiency, and accessibility of breast cancer detection, enabling early diagnosis and personalized treatment. Apart from this, she is working on several other projects in collaboration with students.
Shubhi has been an active member of the School of Computer Science faculty. She organised the inaugural session of the largest computer science portal "Geeks for Geeks" creator Mr. Sandeep Jain as well as the first-ever Uttarakhand Police "Dev Bhoomi Cyber Hackathon" at UPES. She has moderated a number of seminars held at UPES or at UPES Dehradun.
Shubhi Sharma
shubhi.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in?
She has 9+ years of teaching and industry experience.
C, and C++ Programming languages
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor at Galgotias University, Greater Noida - (January 2017 – July 2017)
Discrete Mathematics
Profile Links-
Big Data Analytics
https://www.linkedin.com/in/shubhi-sharma-6443a322/
Contact
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
Applications of ML in Industries
She believes in creating an engaging and dynamic learning environment that fosters critical thinking, curiosity, and collaboration among the students. Her teaching approach is student-centered, focusing on active learning strategies, real-world applications, and continuous assessment to ensure student understanding and success. She strives to adapt teaching methods to accommodate diverse learning styles and provide personalized support to students.
She has organised 9+ Hackathons (with a duration of 24 hours or more). She has participated in a number of conferences, events, and seminars. In order to bridge the gap between industry and academia, she completed the Abhigyat programme at Splash BI in Hyderabad in 2018.
Real world scalable Architecture
Teaching Philosophy
GoogleScholar-