Research Interests
Before joining UPES, Sanjeev Kumar worked as Professor in Department of Computer Science & Engineering and Head of Institutional Innovation Centre at KIET Group of Institutions, Ghaziabad. He has also served as Head of Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Agra College, Agra.
Dr. Sanjeev Kumar taught a range of courses to undergraduate students in Computer Science and Engineering, including Programming Fundamentals, Data Structures and Algorithms, Database Systems, Operating Systems, Computer Networks, Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence,Soft computing (Neural Networks, Genetic Algorithms, Fuzzy Logic), Pattern Recognition, Operating System, Microprocessor, Data Structures, C Programming, MATLAB Programming, Python, Cognitive Analysis, Digital Forensics, Digital Image Processing, Randomized Algorithms, Object Oriented Systems and Programming. These courses cover fundamental principles, practical skills, and advanced concepts to pursue careers in software development, systems analysis, data management, artificial intelligence, and other fields within the realm of Computer Science and Engineering.
Dr. Sanjeev Kumar
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Professor Sanjeev Kumar with a strong educational background and a passion for learning, brought wealth of knowledge and expertise. He is Ph.D. from School of Computer & System Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, titled “Stochastic Modelling and Monte Carlo Simulation of Spiking Patterns in an Ensemble of Neurons”. M.Tech. and B.E from Dayalbagh Educational Institute (Deemed University), AGRA. Prof. Sanjeev is experienced in higher education for over twenty-three years, a capable team manager, researcher, and administrator. He has made significant contributions to research and development activities at both the departmental and institutional levels. He is enthusiastic about promoting a culture of research and innovation by establishing a centre of excellence, guiding faculty members through the process of writing research papers and patent applications, and acting as a reviewer for SCI journals and editor of research book publications.
The "C.V. Raman Award" for Outstanding Academic Performance in the Field of Research was Bestowed. Certificate of Appreciation from Texas Instruments' "India Innovation Challenge Design Contest" for helping students secure startup funding at the annual United Nations Young Change Makers Conclave, held this year on the lawns of the US Consulate in Mumbai. Awardee of the NPTEL Mentoring Award for the Course "Introduction to Machine Learning" (IIT Madras). Recognized as a distinguished coach at the International Collegiate Programming Contest (ACM ICPC) at Amritapuri University in Bengaluru, Coimbatore, and Mysuru. Dr. Sanjeev was awarded a certificate of achievement with honourable mention as a Partner Faculty of Infosys Pvt. Ltd.
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Sanjeev Kumar is reviewer of SCI Journals and Co-Editor of Research Book. He was Coordinator and resource person for Providing professional/research training on Machine Learning and Data Science with hands-on using R/Python/MATLAB (Summer internship Programs for B.Tech. students, M.Tech. & PhD students). He established centre of excellence of “Super Computing and Deep Learning with Supercomputer PARAM-SHAVAK” and assisted pear faculty members/scholars in writing research papers and Patents. Prof. Sanjeev has delivered expert talks on Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Computer Vision, and Computational Neuroscience in AICTE-sponsored national/international workshops/seminars. He has conducted FDP funded by AICTE. He has been a coordinator of designing course material & developing learning platforms. Establishment of various Hobby Clubs and associating able guidance of academic and industry. He has worked as Coordinator of various competitive events i.e., National Level Hackathon Competition and Starting Special Competitive Coding Clubs for students.
sanjeev.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
To foster engagement, Prof. Sanjeev Kumar employs a variety of teaching strategies such as interactive lectures, hands-on projects, case studies, and discussions. By incorporating real-world examples and industry applications. This approach helps students connect theoretical concepts with practical applications, enhancing their understanding and motivation to learn. Dr. Sanjeev strongly emphasizes the development of problem-solving and critical thinking skills by encouraging students to analyse complex problems, break them down into manageable components, and devise effective solutions. He provides opportunities for students to apply their knowledge and skills through practical assignments, coding exercises, and collaborative projects.
Contact
Prof. Sanjeev has research interests in Computational Neuroscience, Cognitive Analytics, Intelligent Computing, Stochastic Modelling and Algorithm Design. Mathematical models of many systems, with an emphasis on their stochastic evolution, have been constructed by him. He has used analytical, simulation, and information-theoretic frameworks to study performance modelling of computer and communication networks, and spiking patterns in neurons. He has worked as an editor of research books and as a reviewer for SCI journals and has more than 40 publications (in journals such as IEEE Transactions/SCI/ESCI/SCIE) and 7 patents (national and international) attest to the author's success as a researcher.
Teaching Philosophy