Dr. Manish Mishra
Research Interests
manish.mishra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Manish has made significant scholarly contributions to Sampling Theory. His research area belongs to the Some estimation problems of population mean using auxiliary information in presence of non-response. He also worked on the use of calibration technique to precise the estimation process.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Estimation in sampling survey using auxiliary information, Calibration, Imputation and Non-response error estimation. He has published several research papers in renowned National and International peer-reviewed journals.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Manish Mishra submitted his Ph. D in Statistics from Banaras Hindu University. During his Undergraduate and Postgraduate, He has been honoured with Innovation in Science Pursuit for Research (Inspire) fellowship for Five years by Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. During his Ph.D., He secured Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) of University Grants Commission, India. His research interest includes estimation in sampling survey using auxiliary information, Calibration, Imputation and Non-response error estimation. He has published several research papers in renowned National and International peer-reviewed journals.
Manish Mishra received Junior Research Fellowship and Senior Research Fellowship during his doctoral pursuit.  He has also been honoured with INSPIRE-DST fellowship during his graduation and Masters.
Assistant Professor
Manish Mishra believe that teachers are obligated to hold students to only the highest expectations. Doing so encourages the students to think highly of themselves, in return, and maximizes the benefits that accompany a self-fulfilling prophecy. He believes that with perseverance and hard work, students will rise to the occasion. Teaching is a process of learning from students, colleagues and parents, and he aim to bring a positive attitude, open mind and high expectations for his students into the classroom each day. He believes he owe it to his class to bring warmth and consistency to inspire those same traits in his students. He regularly asks important questions to gauge students’ understanding and develop their statistical problem-solving and analytical skills.
Contact
Manish Mishra is working as an Assistant Professor of Statistics in School of Liberal Studies and Media. He has expertise in Sampling, Applied Statistics, R Statistical Package, Statistical Analysis, R-Programming, Imputation and Calibration.
Teaching Philosophy