Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Sanjay.malla@ddn.upes.ac.in
Professor Sanjay Malla is an experienced CEO/Director with 25 years of industry experience working in the Semiconductor & Computer hardware industry. Skilled in Operations Management, International Business, Cross-functional Team Leadership, and Corporate Strategy.
Faculty
Prof. Sanjay received the Dean’s Merit Certificate & Medal for overall research excellence from Sydney University.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Sanjay has several publications in reputed international journals. He has attended various international conferences and successfully presented his research papers. He is a member of Strategic Management forum of India. He has been on review committee of various international forums like IEEE, SMF, Emerald, IIMs etc.
.
MBA from IIM-K with specialization in Strategy and Marketing
Profile Summary
Awarded Dean's merit certificate & Medal for overall academic excellence in research field. Specialization in advance Data Analytics using SPSS package. Higher order data analytics using structural equation modelling (SEM) on ADANCO & SmartPLS.
Professor Of Practice
Dr. Sanjay Malla
School of Business
Contact
Holds doctoral degree (Strategic Management) from S P Jain School of Global Management, Sydney.
Prof. Sanjay’s teaching philosophy is completely student centric and completely focusses on students’ deep engagement in classroom which results in authentic student learning. Prof. Sanjay effectively uses his vast industry experience to create Industry like situations in the classroom and starts story telling around those situations which makes classroom experience highly enriching for the students. He firmly believes in preparing students for life beyond MBA schools and encourages students to think of bigger prospects & opportunities in world.  His idea is to not only make students do well in exams but prepare each one of them for the harsh realities of the life outside campuses.
Before joining UPES, Prof. Sanjay was CEO (Indian operations) at Toradex Systems India, a Swiss based MNC in the field of Embedded Systems. He has also held Country Manager positions at various MNC Semiconductor companies in India during his corporate days.
Organizational Development| Post M&A impact on companies| Org. Justice| Leadership| Employee commitment| Trust| Strategic Management
Teaching Philosophy
Prof. Sanjay teaches Strategic Management courses to MBA, BBA & Senior Executives.