Research Interests
Ashish believes that, every student is identical with their own unique learning and interest capabilities. Thus, his philosophy is to inspire students to learn each topic with enthusiasm just for the knowledge and capacity building not only for attaining the marks or passing the exams. As a teacher he would like to ensure that his guidance will help students in finding out answers to some of the challenging questions. The domain knowledge could be attained from various resources now available at the fingertips however, a teacher provides the passion and rigor necessary to pursue knowledge.  As whole Ashish conclude that a mediocre teacher tells, good teacher explains., superior teacher demonstrates and the great teacher inspires.
Prior to joining UPES, Ashish worked with International Finance Corporation – World Bank Group as consultant cum Energy Expert and National Technical and Management United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). In IFC, his work focused on feasibility studies, market entry, and growth strategy, partnership identification, and post-merger integration projects and sector-wise advisory on key policy implementation projects in the field of Renewable Energy Policy and Planning. While in UNIDO, while working with United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), his engagement was to promote and accelerate inclusive and sustainable industrial development in the industries in India with renewable energy dissemination.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Ashish is also a renowned researcher in the field of renewable energy and has outstanding publications in prominent international journals. He also authored Book Chapters in the nascent topics.  Ashish’s research interest area’s include Energy & Power (Technology & Management), Energy Policy and Planning, Economics & Financing of Renewable Energy Systems, Modelling of Grid Energy Storage (Battery), Hydrogen Energy Generation & business models, Waste to Energy & E-Mobility.
Close
Faculty
Click Here
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
ashishk.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Eligibility Criteria
Ashish has received the Best Paper Award at International Conference on Advances in Energy Research (ICAER) IIT Bombay India and has contributed significantly to policy in Renewable Energy Sector. He is also a certified trainer for Solar Industrial Process Heating” from Frankfort university, Germany.
Ashish teaching courses especially in green energy segment here in UPES such as Energy & Utilities, Regulatory Frameworks in Green Energy and Sustainability, Solar Energy Resource Management, Power Finance, Energy Economics, Wind & Hydro Energy Resource Management & Renewable Energy Technologies etc.
Profile Summary
Ashish is also a renowned researcher in the field of renewable energy and has outstanding publications in prominent international journals. He also authored Book Chapters in the nascent topics of the RE sector. Ashish is also a reviewer of International Renewed Journals such as Renewable Energy, Energy for Sustainable Development, Sustainable Energy Technologies and Assessment, Journal of Cleaner Production, International Journal of Ambient Energy, Clean Technologies and Environmental Policy etc. His research contribution could be accessed through -
School of Business
Dr. Ashish Kumar Sharma
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Ashish Kr Sharma, an accomplished academic and industry professional, holds a master’s degree in Energy Technology from NIT Hamirpur, (HP), PhD in Energy policy and planning from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi.  Ashish owns around 7 years’ experience in the field of renewable energy and sustainable development.  Ashish   specializes in techno-economic assessment of renewable energy system, regulatory and policy frameworks prevailing in the sector, energy policy and planning, project management, financing of energy projects & project management.
Teaching Philosophy