Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Prof. M. Gopal’s teaching and research stints span about five decades at prestigious institutes and universities including IIT Delhi (three decades), IIT Bombay, BITS Pilani, MNIT Jaipur, Shiv Nadar University Delhi NCR, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, and City University London. He is currently associated with UPES Dehradun as a Distinguished Professor, School of Computer Science; and with BITS-Pilani as Adjunct Professor.
Prof. M. Gopal has been the Founding Director of the School of Engineering at Shiv Nadar University Delhi NCR, where he made significant contribution towards designing the curriculum and building the academic infrastructure of the School. He spearheaded the creation of the ‘AI Centre’ at UPES with the objectives of offering holistic and innovative new-age courses with experiential learning pedagogy; integrating AI in the curriculum and research within and across all the Schools; enabling the University to align its goals to achieve its vision of becoming the driver of AI education and research in the 21st Century.
Prof. M. Gopal received The National Systems Gold Medal, the highest award instituted by Systems Society of India. Currently, his expertise is being utilized by the Government and Private agencies in evaluating the research grant proposals.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. M. Gopal, Ex-Professor, IIT Delhi, is a globally known academician with excellent credentials as an author, teacher, and researcher. Books authored by Prof. M. Gopal on Control Systems, Machine Learning and Deep Learning have been recommended as the core text widely across various Indian universities and institutes. Some of his books have also been reprinted by international publishers and prescribed as text in many other countries, including USA, Australia, Singapore, and Taiwan. His video course “Lecture Series in Control Engineering” (http://www.youtube.com/iit) is one of the most popular NPTEL courses by the IIT faculty. More than a million students, teachers, researchers, and practitioners have used his books and the video course for knowledge acquisition over the past more than four decades. A recognized researcher in the areas of Machine Learning and Control Systems, Prof M. Gopal is the author/co-author of over 150 research papers; the key contributions have been published in various high impact factor journals. He has supervised 16 doctoral research projects (7 of them in the Machine Learning area).
Prof. M. Gopal has taught almost all the courses in the Control Systems area and related disciplines offered at IIT Delhi. For the last more than a decade, he has been teaching courses on Applied Machine Learning and Deep Learning.
Dr. Madan Gopal
Distinguished Professor
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. M. Gopal’s teaching philosophy reflects his commitment to fostering and enriching student learning. Class discussions and student projects in his courses engage students with real-world data and scenarios, enabling them to acquire essential technical skills and expert-level thinking and reasoning skills. He also adapts to the fast-paced technological changes and modifies the course design, content and delivery every semester, with the objective of providing future-ready education to the students.
Current research interests are in the areas of Deep Learning; Deep Reinforcement Learning; AI and Robotic Process Automation; Applications of AI in Renewable Energy Sources, Environmental Sustainability Issues and Climate Change Mitigation; AI in Medicine and Healthcare Solutions.
Profile Summary
Contact
madan.gopal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy