MIETY (Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Govt. of India)
Research Interests
Abhijit was selected for Visvesraya Research Fellowship for part-time research scholars from
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Much sought after Technocrat, Abhijit was offered domain specialist profiles by top tech companies during his B.Tech and M.Tech Study.
in Machine Intelligence and Network Data Security, MINDS –2022, 18-19 Feb 2022.
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Abhijit believes that teaching is an art, which requires igniting the learners' minds.
Scholarly Activities
During the span of the last 12 years in academics, Abhijit has been teaching diverse subjects related to computer science engineering from core subjects to programming subjects and research-oriented courses as well. Some of the courses, which he has taught in recent years are- Core Course: Data Structures, Algorithm Design and Analysis, Formal Languages and Automata Theory, Compiler Designing, Discrete Mathematics. Programming courses: Object Oriented Programming, Python Programming, and Principle of Programming Language. Research-oriented courses: Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, etc.
. Received Best Paper award titled
Assistant Professor-SG
Abhijit has been granted two patents and has published one patent under his name. He is also actively involved in research and training. Abhijit has delivered multiple expert talks on machine learning, natural language processing, and other related areas of his expertise at various forums, including IIITT Bhopal, JNCT Bhopal, and KV Dehradun. Additionally, he is an expert in organizing various coding challenges and hackathons.
Before joining UPES, he worked with Amity School of Engineering and Technology New-Delhi, India as an Assistant Professor from 2011-2016. Prior to that, he had worked in Software Development at Infosys Technology Ltd Hyderabad, India. just after completing his master’s. During the span of the last 12 years of his academic career, he has served as various administrative roles like Placement Coordinator, EDUSAT Coordinator, Spoken Tutorial Coordinator, Examination Team, and Project Committees. Apart from the administrative roles, he has also organized academic events like UHackathon (1.0, 2.0, 3.0 4.0), International conferences like NGCT, ICMLDE etc., several workshops and FDP’s.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
UPES Dehradun
1.5 lakhs
Profile Summary
Natural Language Processing |Remote Sensing | Bio-Informatics | Deep learning.
abhijit.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
“Design and Development of Design and Development of a Statistical Model for Ranking of a Territory using Machine Learning Algorithms”
from
Abhijit has been working as an Assistant Professor-SG in the School of Computer Science at UPES, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India since July 2016. He is pursuing his Ph.D. in CSE from IIT Patna and completed his M.Tech in CSE from MANIT Bhopal, India. His area of interest is Natural Language Processing and Remote Sensing. He has published several research articles in high-impact factor SCI / SCOPUS journals and conferences. He is also associated with several professional bodies like IAENG, and UACEE.
- Unique Awardee No- VISPHD-MEITY-2527
Contact
Under Research Initiative, he was awarded a seed fund project of amount
Abhijit Kumar
Teaching Philosophy