Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
She served as a reviewer for Journal of Intellectual Capital, International Journal of Emerging Markets, International Journal of  Disclosure and Governance ; Kybernets.
Close
A researcher and Assistant Professor with more than three years of academic experience, equipped with expert level teaching skills in Finance. Proven track record in research excellence and mentorship, aiming to advance research in econometrics modelling , intellectual capital, corporate finance and sustainability through collaboration and innovation. She has published research papers indexed in the WOS/ABDC/Scopus database and presented her research work at various international conferences organized by IITs and IIMs.
neha.smriti@ddn.upes.ac.in
Before joining UPES, Dr. Neha Smriti worked as Assistant Professor in area Finance and Accounting at Alliance University, Bengaluru, India.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Intellectual Capital Asset I Board Gender Diversity I Financial Markets I International finance I Financial innovation
Dr. Neha Smriti
Dr. Neha teaches financial modelling, marketing of financial services, foreign exchange & banking operations , financial markets & Institutions, Banking & Insurance practices and corporate Finance.
Courses Taught
Dr. Neha has made significant contributions to the academic community through her research publications. Her work focuses on topics such as intellectual capital, board gender diversity and corporate finance. She has published research articles in reputable peer-reviewed journals.
Eligibility Criteria
MHRD Fellowship (JRF/SRF), IIT-ISM Dhanbad from 2016-2021.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Dr. Neha’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is her responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. Through her engaging and interactive teaching style, she has effectively conveyed marketing of financial services, financial modelling , foreign exchange & banking operations , corporate finance, financial markets and institutions, banking and insurance practices  to a diverse range of students and simplify complex concepts and create an inclusive learning environment. She often utilizes the lecture method, problem solving, class participation, and case studies drawing upon her extensive knowledge and expertise to deliver informative and structured lectures. She has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into her classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and other resources prior to coming to class where they complete a short quiz. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy