Research Interests
Prof. Sonal has designed and developed multi-award-winning products that have received international accolades for their innovation, aesthetics, and user-centric design.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Indian Aesthetics, Design in India, Craft innovation
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Prof. Sonal was the Industrial Design lead for Kohler India and led the Faucet category and CMF. She also worked for Whirlpool of India, as Design Manager leading the Direct Cool -Single door category.
Ultimately, she aims to equip students with the skills and mindset to create thoughtful and empathetic designs that positively impact people's lives.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Notably her ‘Vive’ collection for Kohler India garnered the prestigious Red dot award 2023 in product design.
Profile Summary
Professor Sonal Singh is a highly skilled and seasoned multidisciplinary designer with over 10 years of industrial design experience. Her expertise spans various industries, including consumer appliances, lighting, lifestyle, and interior design. The diverse range of experiences has endowed her with a broad perspective on design, enabling her to approach projects from multiple vantage points and craft solutions that are not only impactful but also infused with innovation and purpose.
School of Design
Collaboration and interdisciplinary learning are also key components of her teaching methodology. Students are encouraged to work in teams, simulating real-world project environments. Through hands-on activities and exposure to industry trends, students not only enhance their skills but also develop adaptability in a rapidly evolving field.
Assistant Professor
Prof. Sonal’s teaching philosophy revolves around incorporating real-life experiences into the classroom. Having worked extensively in the industry, she brings practical knowledge involved in designing products for mass production to the classroom, preparing students for professional challenges.
Contact
sonal.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
Prof. Sonal teaches both skill-based and knowledge-based courses. Her expertise extends to teaching essential disciplines such as Form Studies, Elements of Design, Product Styling, and Computer Applications. Additionally, she shares her passion for design through elective courses that delve into fascinating areas such as Packaging Design, Toy Design, and Wearables.
Sonal Singh