Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Shilpi Agarwal has around 18 years of experience in the field of education. Throughout her career, Dr. Agarwal has held various additional responsibilities, including Proctor, Summer School Coordinator, and Lab In-charge (Chemistry). She achieved Gold Medals during her B.Sc. and M.Sc. and qualified CSIR-NET and UP-SLET in Chemical Sciences for Lectureship. She earned her Ph.D. from Uttarakhand Technical University, Dehradun. She published over 34 research papers in various national and international journals. Dr. Agarwal is also the author of two books and several book chapters. Her research interests are focused on Catalysis, Biofuels, Waste Management, and Water Purification, where she holds four patents to her credit.
shilpi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Dr. Shilpi Agarwal
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Agarwal embraces a philosophy of unlearning older, conventional methodologies and relearning the latest ones, she employs various modern teaching tools such as hybrid teaching modes, video lectures, virtual labs, and project-based learning to ensure an enriched educational experience.
Profile Summary
Dr. Agarwal's research interests revolve around the fields of Catalysis, Biofuels, Waste Management, and Water treatment.
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Agarwal has effectively taught various courses in Organic Chemistry to B.Sc. and M.Sc. students, providing them with practical exposure to various experiments. She has also taught Engineering Chemistry to B.Tech students. As a passionate educator, she motivates her students to cultivate logical and analytical aptitudes, focus on their goals, and encourage them to pursue potential research beneficial for society.
Dr. Agarwal has been actively involved in multidisciplinary research activities. She developed chemical anti-wear additives to be mixed with diesel fuel, effectively preventing wear and tear in diesel engines. Her work on catalyst development for specific reactions was part of an industrial project. Additionally, she focused on waste management by converting solid waste into potential bio-adsorbents for water treatment and exploring alternate fuels through the conversion of waste/non-edible oil to biodiesel. As a mentor, she has guided numerous students in their research and dissertation work. She is currently supervising one Ph.D. student. Her research contributions include 34 papers, 2 books, 7 chapters, and 4 patents.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Throughout her career, Dr. Agarwal has received several awards for her contributions to various committees. Her poster received the IV prize at an International Conference for her research work. She also served as Co-PI in an Industrial project with a substantial grant of Rs. 84.387 Lakhs. In recognition of her dedicated service, she was awarded the Dedicated Service Employee award by UPES.
Contact
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy
Prior to joining UPES, she worked as a part-time lecturer and on an ad-hoc basis from 2000 to 2006 at S.D. College, Muzaffarnagar. Her role at UPES involves a diverse range of teaching, research, and administrative activities. Notably, Dr. Agarwal was a valuable team member of a prestigious R&D project with IOCL, Faridabad. Her commitment to education is evident through her mentorship of numerous students in research projects, including guiding a major project for a B.Tech final-year student.