Dr. Meenakshi Sharma conducts research on Digital Marketing, Customer Experience, Neuromarketing, E-learning, and Gender Sensitization. Her research has appeared in several renowned journals and has been awarded various honours and achievements. Dr. Sharma’s projects include ‘Wilson Award for Excellence and Innovation in Higher Education Teaching and Learning in Improving Teaching Effectiveness in E- Learning Environment’, and ‘Work toward providing employment to the underprivileged people’. She has been working on the project ‘Drivers of Wellness Tourism for sustainable livelihoods: A study from selected district of Uttarakhand’.
Research Interests
Dr Sharma researches customer retention, factors of customer experience and their relationship with customer satisfaction, factors affecting service quality perception, COVID-19 turbulence and positive shifts in online purchasing by consumers. Her research work also includes innovative online teaching-learning practices in higher education, workplace violence, workplace violence on women, work-life balance.  To do this, she draws upon her expertise in the behavioural sciences to use a variety of methodological approaches – bibliometrics, experimental and longitudinal studies, field research and more in order to provide insightful suggestions to both marketing academics and practitioners.
m.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Close
Before joining UPES, Dr. Sharma was Assistant Professor MBA, and Coordinator NAAC at Uttaranchal University. She has also worked as Assistant Professor, DIT University, and organised various inter-regional competitions, seminars, etc. She worked with Nimbus Academy of Management as faculty of Marketing where she also served as Admission-In-charge and coordinated various other responsibilities.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Sharma teaches Marketing Management, Consumer Behaviour and Market Research, Product Management, Customer Relationship Management, Service Marketing, Retail Management.
Dr. Sharma believes learning happens when students have choices to let their curiosity direct their learning. Real learning happens when students engage as active participants in the learning process. She tries to achieve her objectives by providing learning platforms beyond classrooms. With this experiential learning phenomenon, she builds innovative projects for students in marketing and makes them learn marketing concepts from market research, new product development, and advertising to understanding customer experiences by real-life projects.
Profile Summary
With a Doctorate in Management, MBA with specialization in Marketing, and Master’s in Economics, Dr. Meenakshi Sharma holds 15 years of experience in academics and 6 years in the industry. Her area of interest is Consumer Behaviour, Customer Sustainability and Online Education. Dr. Sharma is a Six Sigma Green Belt and has expertise in SPSS, AMOS, and Tableau. She has taught working professionals in organizations like HPCL, Tata Power, UGVNL, etc.
School of Business
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Dr. Meenakshi Sharma
Teaching Philosophy