Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Before joining UPES, Ajay served as a Civil Judge (Junior Division)/Judicial Magistrate First Class in the State of Haryana. He has also worked as an Assistant Professor in the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi for more than six years and has been associated with various committees like the Legal Aid Committee, Moot court committee, Seminar Committee, gaining organizational and administrative experience of around eight years. He has also served as an Assistant Professor in the School of Law, GD Goenka University, Gurugram, and has been part of the Legal Aid Committee and Equivalence Committee. He regularly mentors students for the preparation of Judicial Services examinations and various other competitions.
His areas of interest are Criminal Laws, Family Laws, Human rights, and Property Laws. He has published research articles in the area of Human rights law, especially on the rights of weaker sections of society like SC/ST and Children. He has published research articles in premier research journals like ILI Law Review, Journal of Faculty of Law, University of Delhi (JOLTI), and other UGC-CARE Journals. His Doctoral Research is on the rights of underprivileged sections of Society.
Close
Faculty
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
While serving as an academician, he had been preparing for various competitive examinations. He appeared in the Haryana Civil Services (Judicial Branch) Interview in 2013. He qualified the preliminary examination of the Delhi Judicial Services in 2015. He has also qualified the preliminary examination of the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch). He appeared and qualified the Haryana Civil Services (Judicial Branch) Examination in 2015 and got appointed as Civil Judge (Junior Division)/Judicial Magistrate First Class. Due to his keen interest in academics, he resigned from the post of judicial officer and rejoined academia.
Ajay is a dedicated and passionate teacher working in the field of legal academia since 2010. He comes with more than twelve years of teaching and industry experience. He has been a Civil Judge/Judicial Magistrate in the State of Haryana, having practical experience of the functioning of courts and expertise in drafting legal documents, judgment writing, and procedural laws. He has taught at premier institutions like the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi, New Delhi, and GD Goenka University, Gurugram.
Profile Summary
a.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Ajay Kumar
He has received his education from renowned institutions like the Indian Law Institute, New Delhi (LL.M.), Kurukshetra University, Haryana (B.A. LL.B.), and is currently pursuing his Doctorate in Philosophy (Ph.D.) from the Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla. He has qualified UGC NET-JRF. He has delivered guest lectures at various platforms and has judged various moot court competitions at universities. He has been part of organizational committees and has contributed to organizing various National and International Conferences, Workshops, Seminars, and Guest lectures.
He has taught both procedural and substantive laws. He has taught procedural subjects like the Law of Criminal Procedure, Law of Civil Procedure, and substantive subjects like the Indian Penal Code, Family Laws, Property Law, Evidence Law, Public International Law, Law of Torts, Law of Limitation, and Clinical subjects like Trial Advocacy, Drafting of Criminal Matters, Drafting of Writs, and Conveyancing. He has been mentoring students for Judicial examinations and various other competitions.
Teaching Philosophy