Dr. Gagan taught core computer science subjects like C, C++, OOPs, Data Structures along with many of the specialization subjects VM administration, Cloud Computing, Mainframe skills, Digital Marketing, IoT, etc. The experience gained from these subjects is utilized for providing a better environment to the students during classroom sessions.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Assistant Professor S.G.
Dr. Gagan has presented many research articles at national and international conferences. He also contributed many of the research articles in Scopus and SCI journals. He has published some edited books in the field of IT and was a reviewer for some journals. He is also an IBM certified trainer/SME on delivering training in IBM technologies. He contributes to industry projects as Systems Consultant.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Gagan Deep Singh is recognised as a subject matter expert in system design, integration and optimization for IT projects like ERP, MIS, Networks and Data Centre. He has been also awarded by IBM for his quality contribution to technical labs audit. His area of research focused on optimization and performance. He has been also a resource person for State Governments and Ministry of Culture, GoI, for providing training programs on ICT skills.  He led many of the core IT projects such as Data Centre integration from physical to virtual IT infrastructure, power load optimization for data centres, open source LMS for higher education, etc. He has also published research articles in reputed journals.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Gagan Deep Singh
Dr. Gagan received Technical Labs Audit awards from IBM and a letter of appreciation from the principal DIET, Government of Uttarakhand, for providing the training on ‘AI in Education’.
Dr. Gagan follows the “student-to-instructor” philosophy during his teaching sessions. First, he makes students comfortable with the subject and then focuses more on those students who have difficulty understanding any of the topics. He tries to understand the psychology of students as every student is different and may have their own ability to understand the subject. Feedback from the students is considered to design a pedagogy of the subject.
The research contribution in the field of VANET routing optimization through metaheuristics algorithm. An optimized system is proposed for traffic optimization in realistic traffic scenarios through bioinspired algorithm. The research interest is in providing solutions to social problems through ICT.
Profile Summary
gagan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Teaching Philosophy