akvishwakarma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Prof. Vishwakarma, as a Member of the Education Council – North Eastern India-ASEAN Chamber of Commerce & Industry, New Delhi, was invited to chair the session at the international conference on 'Role of Higher Education in Sustainable Development' held from May 12 to 15, 2017, organized by Nehda University in Cairo, Egypt. He received a certificate of recognition for presiding over the session as a "Resource person" for a one-week Compulsory Course for Senior Indian Forest Services (IFS) Officers on 'Environment Law, Policy & Governance in India: National and international Perspectives' from October 26th to 30th, 2020, at the School of Law, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun, India.
Dr Annirudh has taught Law of Contract (general principles and specific contracts), Law of torts, Law of Trademarks and Drafting and pleadings etc.
Courses Taught
Dr. Annirudh Vashishtha
Before joining UPES, Dr. Annirudh worked with Amity University, Noida from 2010 to 2024. He has also worked with Diwan and Diwan Law firm from 2007 to 2008.
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Trademarks, law of torts and business laws.
Profile Summary
Contact
Dr Annirudh has published many articles and research papers in leading national and international journals including SCOPUS and UGC-CARE. He has also edited two books. He has presented several papers in national and international conferences and seminars.
Dr. Annirudh’s teaching philosophy is very simple and student centric with focus on case studies.
Dr. Annirudh Vashishtha is a law graduate from CLC (Campus Law Centre), Faculty of Law, University of Delhi and a postgraduate from ILI (Indian Law Institute), Delhi. He has completed his doctorate from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He has qualified NET-JRF in the year 2010. He is an expert in IPRs and Business Laws and has completed his Ph.D. on the topic Unconventional Trademarks.
Teaching Philosophy