Research Interests
With a three-year teaching experience in BITS Pilani as a teaching instructor, she has briefly worked as an assistant professor at IILM university, Greater Noida, after the completion of her Ph.D. degree in 2023.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
sambhavi.shukla@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Their research interests focus on the Internet of Things (IoT), with conference presentations and a book chapter on smart cities, and she has recently expanded into AI integration with IoT. Dr. Sambhavi holds an MTech from J.C. Bose Institute of Engineering and Technology (YMCA), Faridabad. Her teaching and research experience in computational and applied sciences largely focusses on integrating the computer science world with real time applications and enabling customized IoT.
Dr. Sambhavi Shukla
Eligibility Criteria
She believes in the power of practical application. By integrating real-world problems and examples into the curriculum, she helps students see the relevance of their studies and develop the skills necessary to solve real-life challenges.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Contact
With a diverse teaching experience, Dr. Sambhavi has instructed various subjects in ECE and CSE, including Fundamentals of Python Programming, Digital Electronics, Microprocessor, and Computer Organization and Architecture.
Dr. Sambhavi has received several notable achievements throughout their academic and research career. She has been awarded with the best paper award in 2023 for their work on 2D nanomaterials in the optical communication band and two best paper awards in 2022 on highly sensitive surface plasmon-based sensors using ZnS-PVP layers. Her article figure was also selected for the cover art of the June 2022 issue of the International Journal of Computational Electronics. Additionally, she received the Best Researcher award from the World Research Council and ISSN awards for her work on aluminum MoS2 based plasmonic devices.
Dr. Sambhavi holds a Ph.D. in Computational Electromagnetics from Birla Institute of Technology (BITS) Pilani, where she also served as a teaching assistant for over three years. She has qualified both UGC-NET (2018) and GATE (2017). She has published 10 SCIE-indexed journal publications and presented at 15 international conferences, and received three best paper awards. Her current research includes a photonics and biosensors.
Teaching Philosophy