Aditya Rawat completed his legal graduation from Symbiosis Law School, Pune (2009-2014). He started his professional life as a corporate legal professional, working at Deloitte Advisory for 4 years. During his tenure at Deloitte, he specialized in Global eDiscovery, Managed Review Services, and Compliance Management. He has two years of international work experience, during which he managed a team of around 180 international European contract attorneys based out of Berlin, Germany, and assisted clients with their forensic and data production responses/compliance to courts worldwide. After returning to India, he pursued his LLM from NLU Delhi with a dual specialization in Constitutional theory and the human rights legal framework. He received a gold medal for securing the third position in the University and qualified UGC-NET in 2019. Since 2019, he has been working in legal academia.
Research Interests
Constitutional philosophy | Legal pluralism | Human rights | Legal theory | Gender and the law.
I often moderate courses within Constitutional Law specializations. At UPES, I have moderated courses on Gender Justice and Feminist Jurisprudence, Environmental Law, and recently, Making of the Indian Constitution.
Aditya Rawat received a gold medal in LLM for securing the third position at National Law University, Delhi.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
"Book Review: Rathore's ambitious venture off the well-trodden path of preambular disquisition" in NLIU Law Review Vol. 11 Issue 1 (2021).
Scholarly Activities
"Book review – Kashmir: History, Politics, Representation" in CASIHR Journal of Human Rights Practice, RGNUL Patiala Vol. IV, Issue 2 (2021).
Courses Taught
Before joining UPES, A. Rawat worked at Amity University Rajasthan (AUR). He is currently a doctoral candidate at NALSAR, Hyderabad. His doctoral work focuses on the challenges of legal pluralism to the principle of constitutional morality and its implications on the human rights discourse.
School of Law
Aditya is currently working on a research project concerning pluralistic constitutional identity in the Global South. His published works are listed below:
Eligibility Criteria
"India That Is Bharat-Engaging but Incongruent Decolonial Epistemology to Understanding Indian Constitutionalism" in Constitutional Law & Administrative Law Journal (CALQ) Vol. VII Issue 1 (2022).
My teaching philosophy is antithetical to the guru-shishya hierarchical model and is not premised on a product-knowledge paradigm. It is more of a process wherein I am as much a learner as I am learned. As a legal educator, it becomes imperative that we partake in discourses before asking the 'law questions'.
Profile Summary
Aditya Rawat
Assistant Professor
"Judicial Misogyny: When 'Preserver of Rights' further the culture of misogyny and 'rape culture'" in The Gujarat National Law University Law Review (GNLU Law Review) Vol. VIII, Issue 1 (2021).
Contact
"Book Review: Why Religious Freedom Matters For Democracy: Comparative Reflections From Britain and France for a Democratic 'Vivre Ensemble' by Myriam Hunter-Henin" in Constitutional Law & Administrative Law Journal (CALQ) Vol. 6 Issue 1 (2021).
aditya.rawat@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
"Competing Challenges of Public Morality to Constitutional Morality: Comparative Study of Mob Justice in Sub-Continent Countries" in Comparative Constitutional