Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Beyond the classroom, Ms. Talukdar actively participates in conferences, seminars, and workshops to stay updated with the latest developments in Labour Laws, Criminal Laws, and Constitutional Laws. This allows her to provide her students with the most relevant and up-to-date insights into these areas of expertise.
Labour Laws I Criminal Law I Constitutional Law
Throughout her academic journey, Ms. Talukdar have dedicated herself to in-depth research and scholarly activities in various areas of law, including Labour Laws, Constitutional Law, and Criminal Law. Her research in Labour Laws, has culminated in the recent publication of a book that explores the nuances of Labour Law, providing insights into the challenges, and reforms brought in this field through the four labour Codes.
Faculty
Assistant Professor- Senior Scale
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES in July 2019, Ms. Talukdar was at the Fairfield Institute of Management and Technology, Delhi as an Assistant Professor of Law. She started her career in the year 2018 as a visiting faculty at Tezpur Law College, Assam.
Ms. Talukdar specializes in teaching Labour Laws, but she has also taught various other courses including the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973, Law of Life Insurance and Family Law.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
She completed her Master of Laws specializing in Criminal Law from Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi in the year 2017. Before pursuing her LLM, she completed her undergraduate degree in BALLB (Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws) from Aligarh Muslim University, located in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh in the year 2015.
Below are some of the recent works by Ms. Talukdar:
Nikita Begum Talukdar
Through her publications, research papers, and participation in academic conferences, she has strived to contribute to the legal community's understanding of these vital areas.
nbtalukdar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Published a book chapter titled “Environmental Criminal Liability in India” in an editorial book named Environmental Law and Policy in India: Contemporary Issues and Challenges published by Satyam Law International with ISBN 978-93-91345-79-2, in January 2023.
Ms. Talukdar’ teaching approach integrates theoretical knowledge with practical examples, ensuring that students grasp the application of laws in real-world scenarios. She believes in fostering critical thinking and analytical skills among her students, enabling them to excel in their future legal careers.
Published a book chapter titled, “Covid 19 and its impact on Cyber Crimes” in an editorial book named Cyber Law and Globalizing World, ISBN 9789391345341, published by Satyam Law International in the year 2022.
Ms. Nikita Begum Talukdar with a strong academic background and expertise in Labour Laws and Criminal Laws is dedicated in providing comprehensive legal education to aspiring professionals. She is pursuing her Ph.D. in Labour Laws from National Law University and Judicial Academy, Assam. Her research focuses on the intricacies of labour laws and their impact on various stakeholders.
Published a book chapter titled, “Right to wear a hijab vis-a-vis Fundamental Rights under the Indian Constitution” in an editorial book named Contemporary Socio-Legal Issues: A Multidisciplinary approach with ISBN 978-93-92189-22-7, published by Perception Publishing House in the year 2022.
Contact
Published a book chapter titled “the Criminal Procedure (Identification) Act, 2022 Vis a Vis Criminal Administration in India: An Analysis” in an editorial book named Contemporary issues in the Criminal Justice Administration in India published by Iterative International Publisher with ISBN 9788196047818 in 2022.
Edited and published a book on Labour Reforms in India: Issues and Challenges incurrent Legal Perspectives in 2022 published by IIP (Iterative International Publishers) with ISBN
Published a paper titled “Critical analysis of & Worker with respect to IR Code 2020 and Code on wages 2019.” to be published in the book Labour Reforms in India: Issues and Challenges incurrent Legal Perspectives in 2022 by IIP (Iterative International Publishers) with ISBN
Teaching Philosophy