Research Interests
Before joining UPES, Prof. Chikhale was at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi as a Visiting Faculty. Previously, he has also held a Faculty Position at the Department of Management, City University of New York, USA as well as a research position at Stevens Institute of Technology, New Jersey, USA. He comes with diversified exposure holding academic position in a private set up in India, along with a brief industry stint abroad as well.
Home
Work Experience
Close
Dr. Chikhale publishes regularly in leading national and international journals. His work is published in Journals such as Global Journal of Flexible Systems Management, International Journal of Business Continuity and Risk Management, Strategic Change and IEEE Engineering Management Review. Moreover, he also serves as a reviewer for journals like European Management Journal and Management & Labor Studies. He has also led and featured on projects of national and international stature for the Federal Aviation Administration NextGen, USA and Business process re-engineering for TADB as well as ICSSR.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Mayur Manohar Chikhale
Profile Summary
Strategy, Systems Thinking, Governance of Enterprise Systems, Technology Management, Strategic Alignment, Enterprise Transformation
School of Business
Contact
Prof. Chikhale’s teaching philosophy is based on inquiry- based questions and interactive based learning. He encourages students to be curious, in general, and strives to create a classroom environment that facilitates enthusiasm, whether it is through teaching sessions, periodical quizzes, interesting reads, group discussions or class presentations. The general tendency of his classroom is to provide an environment for open learning through different mediums. The in-class assignments tend to reflect this tendency. He also tends to employ case-based learning for finding solutions to corporate and real-world problems.
Prof. Chikhale teaches core courses in strategic management and technology management. In teaching these courses, he takes an approach that starts with foundational topics to formulation and eventually rounding things up with implementation. He has also developed and taught elective courses in systems thinking, strategy and management of technology transfer & absorption. He teaches courses at the UG as well as PG level.
mayurmanohar.chikhale@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Mayur Chikhale is a proficient faculty who comes with rich expertise in strategic management, systems thinking, technology management and governance of enterprise systems. His research work focusses on how governance of enterprises can be managed effectively through a systems approach to strategic change and transformation. His secondary interests lie in determining how technology, as a resource, can be systemically managed efficiently through its strategic adoption and management.