Before joining UPES, Dr. Barthwal was a faculty of Marketing in Dubai, UAE, in colleges affiliated with the US and the UK universities (University of Wales, UK, Champlain College, U.S.A., University of Sunderland, UK) and worked at various administrative and academic positions.
Research Interests
Prof. Barthwal believes that awareness and knowledge are the crucial parameters that can impact the mind and culture and bring about a change for a better future. He practices a teaching philosophy that challenges to suggest unique solutions to business and social problems through innovative teaching pedagogies and creative content. Dr. Barthwal considers the functional involvement of students through field assignments and real-time industry projects as a pivot to bring fresh perspectives to business and societal issues and hone the creative skills of youngsters.
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Sunil Barthwal
Professor
Awards and Grants
sunilb@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Prof. Barthwal teaches Marketing Management, Digital Marketing, Marketing for Digital Economy, Consumer Behavior, Integrated Marketing Communication and Social Media Marketing.
Faculty
During his tenure at School of Business, UPES, Dr. Barthwal has won accolades and awards for developing innovative teaching methodology, research, organising marketing conclaves, and publishing a periodic newsletter for the School of Business. He is also a Member of Commission on Education and Communication (CEC) (IUCN).
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Barthwal has been a part of management development programs at UPES and in the Middle East. Dr. Barthwal trained 120 IOCL dealers under IOCL Dealer training program and taught Marketing to employees of HPCL and IOCL under their career progression programs. Apart from writing research papers, Dr. Barthwal has published articles in Indian national dailies (The Hindustan Times and The Times of India) and currently contributes topical articles on social and cultural issues for the blogs of The Times of India and Down to Earth.
The research initiatives of Prof. Barthwal are aligned with multi-disciplinary facets of business and social issues that explore consumer culture and societal mindsets on aspects of the digital ecosystem, consumer culture, environmental values, and sustainability. Dr. Barthwal has published and presented several studies on advertising, consumer culture, digital technologies, sustainability, and eco-tourism with students and scholars.
Profile Summary
School of Business
Contact
Dr. Sunil Barthwal has been teaching management programs to a diverse mix of students in India and the Middle East for over 23 years. Dr. Barthwal has a keen interest in tracking the impact of AI in the field of marketing, particularly in the domain of advertising and social media.
Teaching Philosophy