She has 10+ years of teaching experience.
Research Interests
Dr. Juhi firmly believes in strengthening students' foundational knowledge and enhancing it with the latest technological developments. She places great emphasis on active student participation in the classroom and encourages them to ask questions. Dr. Juhi enriches her lectures with hardware demonstrations and visualizations, utilizing computer programs to facilitate the understanding of otherwise complex concepts. She prioritizes practical lab work, ensuring problem explanation and assessment with immediate feedback on the same day. She strives to adapt my teaching methods to accommodate diverse learning styles and provide personalized support to students. Her assignments and tests are designed to be novel, challenging students to think creatively and apply their learning to real-world scenarios.
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Juhi has made significant research contributions, with publications ranging from journal articles to conference papers. In her research on Flying ad-hoc networks (FANETs), she explored various mobility models and routing techniques. Additionally, Dr. Juhi published six SCI-indexed articles on FANETs. Moreover, she has published 20+ Scopus-indexed papers in various journals. These publications showcase her ability to critically analyse complex problems, propose innovative solutions, and effectively communicate her findings to the academic community. She was a part of the NGCT society member, NAAC, and NBA auditing and curriculum development team.  She was the member of organizing committee in NGCT-15, September 04-05, 2015, UPES, Dehradun, TPC Member in NGCT-15, September 04-05, 2015, UPES, Dehradun, 2nd ICGCET-2016, 18-20 August 2016 in Aalborg University, Esbjerg, Denmark 2016, and TPC Member in 4th International Conference on NGCT, November 21-22, 2018, School of Computer Science, UPES. Additionally, she serves as a member of the reviewer board of the Journal of Supercomputing (SUPE), Springer, SCI Indexed,
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Juhi Agrawal
Faculty
Flying ad-hoc networks (FANETs) | Vehicular ad-hoc networks (VANETs) | Sensor networks | Semantic web technology | Machine Learning
jagrawal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Currently working as an Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) in the School of Computer Science at the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun Uttarakhand-248007, India for the last 8 years.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Journal of Computer and System Sciences
2 years’ experience as a Lecturer (CSE) at IMS Unison University, Dehradun (August 2013 to June 2015).
Profile Summary
Juhi Agrawal holds the position of Assistant Professor-SG in the School of Computer Science at UPES, located in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India.  Dr. Juhi Agrawal is a Ph.D. holder in Computer Science and Engineering with expertise in Flying ad-hoc networks (FANETs). She acquired B.Tech in Information Technology from LPU, Punjab, M. Tech in Information Technology from GEU, Dehradun. She has more than 10 years of experience in academics and research. Her research interest includes in Flying ad-hoc networks (FANETs), Vehicular ad-hoc networks (VANETs), Sensor networks, Semantic web technology, and Machine Learning. She has written about 20+ research papers, articles that have been published in journals with SCI or Scopus indices. Additionally, she serves as a member of the reviewer board of the Journal of Supercomputing (SUPE), Springer, SCI Indexed,
, Elsevier, SCI Indexed, International Journal of Communication Systems, Willey, SCIE Indexed and International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering, Elsevier, Scopus Indexed.
Assistant Professor (SG)
She teaches the fundamental subjects of computer science and engineering like Operating systems, Computer networks, Object-oriented programming, Data Warehouse, and data mining, and so on. She investigates how the backgrounds and incentives of these courses shape the formation and evolution of problem-solving. In another stream of work, she takes IT Network security, IT Infrastructure and library, system security and IOT application.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy