Professor is recognised as Oil & Gas expert in Downstream sector. His influential and techno- commercial research focuses on Petrochemical Business, City Gas Distribution Business, Petro-Retail Business, Oil & Gas Storage and Transportation Business, Automation & Digitalisation implementation in Oil & Gas sector. It addresses issues related to Portfolio Energy Analysts, CGD Managers, Bunkering & Charting Manager, Petro-Retail Business Development Manager, Petrochemical Business Development Manager, Procurement Manager, Insurance Manager, HSE Manager, etc.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Product Launch Award in SAARC countries for GROZ Engineering Tools.
Close
anirudhsingh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Anirudh Singh
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Energy & Sustainability, Downstream, Natural Gas Business, Petro- Retail & Fuels.
Prof. Anirudh teaches the subjects Fundamental of Oil & Gas Business, Refining & Petrochemical Business, POL Retailing, Advanced Petroleum Retailing, Oil & Gas Storage and Transportation, Lubricant Marketing, Petroleum Retail Marketing & Development, Oil & Gas Channel & Distribution. He investigates how to work with Oil & Gas industry with new initiatives which will be applicable as per regulations. He helps students in preparing them as per latest trends and market needs.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Anirudh led multidisciplinary teams on an international and national collaborative project to better understand the regulatory, financial, and technical behaviour of global and Indian Energy markets. He regularly delivers training and development sessions to various big energy-related organizations. His work has a strong approach to innovation.
GAIL GAS provided INR 2.95 lakh grant for his Ph.D.
Profile Summary
Before joining UPES, Prof. Anirudh had 16 years industrial experience with Groz Engineering Tools, Anand group, ENI-SPA Italy, Petronas, Essar, Castrol-BP, TOTAL.
School of Business
Prof. Anirudh teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. He has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class where they complete a short quiz. Quiz material is not repeated in class but instead is used as the foundation for in-class assignments that involve students working with real data and situations. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Contact
Product Launch Award for Petronas in India.
Copyright of his PhD thesis.
Prof. Anirudh received the best product manager for POWER 1 (CASTROL- BP) brand in Maharashtra.
Teaching Philosophy