Research Interests
Venkatesh is a proponent of active and engaging education, seamlessly blending Socratic questioning with hands-on learning. He firmly believes that these approaches cultivate critical thinking, facilitate profound comprehension, and stimulate the practical application of knowledge. By incorporating these methodologies into his teaching practices, Venkatesh crafts dynamic and enriching learning experiences that empower students to excel in their academic pursuits.
Home
Work Experience
Close
Design Semantics, Experience Design, HCI, Mixed Reality, Data Analytics and Visualization, Emerging Technologies, Multimodal Interactions, Behavioral Science
vvarala@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Venkatesh is an experienced Design Researcher with a demonstrated history of working in the higher education industry. He is skilled in User Experience Design, Product Design, and related tools. Venkatesh holds a M.Des from IIITD&M and is currently pursuing his Ph.D  with a focus on Design from IIT Guwahati.
Venkatesh Varala
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Venkatesh is actively involved in teaching various courses in the field of User Experience Design and its allied areas. Some of the courses he teaches include Design Semantics, Multimodal Systems, Voice Interface Design, Data-Driven Design, User Data Analytics, Research Methods in Design, and Design Methods. Through his expertise and dedication, he aims to impart valuable knowledge and skills to his students, preparing them for successful careers in the design industry.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
During his doctoral studies, Venkatesh has been actively involved in multiple assignments, including teaching and mentoring. He played a key role in setting up the Virtual Reality Facility at the Center for Education Technology, IIT Guwahati. As a research scholar, he has also mentored student interns on various projects. Venkatesh has taken on the responsibility of team lead for multiple international conferences and has attended many conferences as well. Currently, he serves as the program chair for the India HCI 2023 conference.
Before joining UPES in 2019 Venkatesh was a researcher at IIT Guwahati working at one of the pioneering Usability lab of India. He worked with Sanmina-SCI Systems USA  as system designer for one year as full time Intern at India design center Chennai.
School of Design
Assistant Professor
Contact
Teaching Philosophy