Research Interests
Ms. Bahuguna’s teaching pedagogy combines dynamic teaching methods, learning activities, and critical assessments. She also believes in critically assessing her pedagogy through the lens of students’ experiences. She visualizes that teaching and assessing are two related practices as a cycle because they are iterative and ongoing. She also diversifies her pedagogy by committing her students to discipline. She is a fierce advocate of active learning and less traditional lecturing, which comprises conducting discussions and quizzes, team-based learning, experiential learning, problem-based learning, and case-based learning that can develop critical thinking and problem-solving attitude in students. She also makes sure that in her lecture, students do not underestimate themselves, so she creates an environment that normalizes mistakes as part of the learning process. She emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning in pharmacy, hence encouraging students to actively participate in laboratory exercises.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
richa.bahuguna@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Ms. Bahuguna has qualified and is a rank holder in Graduate Pharmacy Aptitude Test (GPAT) in 2013 and has received a scholarship from AICTE during her Post graduation. She has received excellence awards and cash prizes during her academic career. She is a life member of the Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India (APTI) and the Society of Pharmaceutical Education & Research (SPER).
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Ms. Bahuguna worked as Assistant Professor at Sardar Bhagwan University, Dehradun.
Ms. Bahuguna has also participated in the national and international conferences to present her research work and ideas. She has guided more than 15 students on various review and research topics for the B.Pharm final year project and two M.Pharm students for their research work. She has actively participated in various faculty development programs and seminars. She has worked as a trainee in Herbal R&D, Mandal, UK. Shas published research and review articles in journals of national and international repute. She has presented papers at conferences. She is the reviewer of 2 national journals.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Transdermal drug delivery, Lipid-based nano drug delivery system, Graft copolymerization, AI in drug delivery system.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Ms. Richa Bahuguna
Assistant Professor
Contact
Ms. Richa Bahuguna comes with 6+ years of experience in the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences. She completed M.Pharm (Pharmaceutics) from Uttarakhand Technical University in 2015. Currently, she is pursuing Ph.D. from UPES under the supervision of Dr. Rajendra Awasthi (top 2% scientist globally and Associate Professor in SoHST, UPES).
Ms. Bahuguna teaches various courses in Pharmacy. She made students familiar with novel drug delivery systems and guidelines related to synthetic as well as herbal drugs. She also familiarized students with Pharmaceutics, Industrial Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics.
Teaching Philosophy