Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
His  teaching philosophy as an Assistant Professor centers on fostering a student-centered, inclusive learning environment that prioritizes active engagement, personalized instruction, and critical thinking. He aim to incorporate relevant technologies to enhance learning, while providing mentorship and support to encourage continual growth and development. He Upholds ethical conduct and promoting interdisciplinary perspectives and seek to instil in students a real-world understanding of the significance of their education in addressing societal challenges and preparing them for their future endeavors.
At UPES, he has taught Biostatistical Methods in Clinical Research and Fundamentals of Biostatistics using IBM SPSS Software. I instruct diverse groups of students in various statistical courses. In his role as a teaching assistant at IIT Bombay, he got the opportunity to teach a range of courses, including Introduction to Probability and Statistics, Regression Analysis using R, Multivariate Analysis, Applied Stochastic Processes, Parametric and Nonparametric Inference. These courses have allowed him to work with students at different levels of statistical expertise and have shaped my approach to teaching.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
vijay.kumar1@ddn.upes.ac.in
Before joining UPES, He was Research Associate at Departments of Mathematics, IIT Bombay.
Profile Summary
Applied Statistics I Probability I Stochastic Process
Assistant Professor
Vijay Kumar
He holds a Ph.D. and M.Sc. in Statistics from IIT Bombay, demonstrating a strong foundation in advanced statistical methodologies and data analysis. He is proficient in conducting rigorous research, developing mathematical models, and extracting actionable insights from complex data. Dr. Kumar's expertise extends to various statistical software packages like R, Python, MATHEMATICA, IBM SPSS, and MATLAB, allowing him to analyze data and solve real-world problems.
He has published many research papers in various prestigious international journals such as Stochastic Analysis and Applications, Communications in Statistics-Simulation and Computation, Mathematics Newsletter.
Contact
He is a qualified IIT JAM in Statistics (AIR 85), GATE in Statistics (AIR 67) and Mathematics (AIR 325).
Teaching Philosophy