Have published in the domain of animal laws, involving Indian judiciary and its engagement with animal jurisprudence and status of animals as victims of crime.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Udit has taught diversity of courses including Law of Evidence, Labour Laws, Interpretation of Statutes, Tort law, Contact law, Energy law, Administrative law etc.
Teacher must believe that he/she is no less than a magician and then magic happens. Teaching is one of the most sensitive tasks and the most rewarding also. Making students think is a real skill.
Often give lectures/sessions/expert talks for the officers of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited.
Faculty
Udit has been associated with UPES School of Law since 2018. Recently, he completed five years of teaching experience with us.
Scholarly Activities
Mr. Udit Raj Sharma is working as the Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) at the UPES School of Law, Dehradun and served more than five years in academics. He did BALLB (Hons. with specialization in Energy Laws ) from UPES Dehradun and pursued LLM from Indian Law Institute, New Delhi. His interest areas are Criminal Laws, Animal Law, Energy Law, and public law in general. He has avid inclination in teaching and research in law. He is an honorary member at the Centre for Criminology and Victimology at RGNUL, Patiala and a reviewer at the ILI Law Review.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Pursuing Doctor of Philosophy on the theme of “Animal Law in India: A Jurisprudential Analysis”
Profile Summary
Udit Raj Sharma
Assistant Professor
Uditraj.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Udit is avidly interested in researching in the field of Animal Laws, Criminal Laws, Constitutional laws, judicial process, Energy laws etc.
Contact
Awarded the Best Researcher Award at the International Conference on Sustainability and Subsistence- Human Rights & Environmental Issues jointly organised by Lloyd Law College, Indian Law Institute for the paper titled “From Hanif Qureshi to A Nagaraja – Analysing the ‘Twist in the tail' of Judicial Process Towards Non-human species by the Supreme Court of India.
Teaching Philosophy