Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
shibam.talukdar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Mr. Shibam Talukdar is an Assistant Professor of Law at the School of Law, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun. He obtained a B.A., LL.B. (Hons.) degree from National Law University and Judicial Academy, Assam, and an LL.M. degree with a specialization in Constitutional and Administrative Law from Gujarat National Law University. He cleared the UGC-NET in 2019 and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. degree from Gujarat National Law University in the intersecting research area of Biotechnology Law and Constitutional Law.
Faculty
Mr. Shibam adopts a classroom teaching approach that focuses on breaking down complex legal tenets into their fundamental ingredients, making them easily comprehensible to the students. He uses illustrations and demonstrates hypothetical situations that enable students to effectively understand the concepts taught in the classroom. He emphasizes creating a comfortable space for the students to interact with the instructor and among themselves on the topics under discussion. Furthermore, he routinely encourages his students to participate in co-curricular and extra-curricular activities for their overall development as qualified legal professionals.
Scholarly Activities
Assistant Professor of Law
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Constitutional Law, Cyber Law, Biotechnology Law.
Profile Summary
Contact
Shibam Talukdar
Mr. Shibam is currently assigned the responsibility of teaching Jurisprudence and Environmental Studies and Law. He has previously taught Administrative Law, Labor Law, and Internet Regulation and Jurisdiction at the UPES School of Law. In addition to his teaching responsibilities, he supervises students working on their dissertations and seminar papers.
Teaching Philosophy
Mr. Shibam is a legal academic with over two years of experience in teaching and research. In addition to his scholarly pursuits, he gained valuable industry experience through two years of practice in litigation and engagement as an in-house corporate lawyer at a reputed e-commerce start-up.
Mr. Shibam regularly engages in academic activities. He has presented papers at national and international conferences and has authored articles in reputable journals. He has also co-authored a book. He has organized a sensitization program and a conference in the area of Hemp Law at the UPES School of Law, attracting legal scholars and industry experts alike, fostering meaningful discussions and promoting innovative ideas in the field. Currently, Mr. Shibam is editing a multi-author volume while simultaneously authoring his next publication.