Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Faculty
Dr. Neeraj Kataria holds a Master’s in Management Studies from Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) Allahabad with specialization in HRM/Organizational Behavior with First Division (Hons.). He has earned UGC-NET certification in HRM from University Grants Commission (MHRD). His Ph.D. is from Uttarakhand Technical University in the domain of International Human Resource Management. He is a certified internal quality auditor (educational service) from DNV Norway. He is also a certified HR Analytics Professional.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Kataria’s teaching philosophy involves fostering critical thinking, encouraging open dialogue, and exploring fundamental questions about knowledge, existence, ethics, and more.
Dr. Kataria teaches Organizational Behaviour, HRM, Business, Corporate and Labor Laws, Employee Relations, Change Management, and International HRM amongst other courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Dr. Kataria believes in creating not only professional skills and competencies, but also human values among the students. He aims at creating sensible and responsive citizens of India for the future.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kataria has involved students in field-based and project-based learning, whereby the skill development takes place through practical exposure. He is an established corporate trainer, who brings his experience of training into the class by integrating theoretical perspective with actual grassroots-level decision-making and problem-solving skills.
Dr. Neeraj Kataria
Profile Summary
International HRM, Employment Legislations, Employment Relations, AI applications in HRM
School of Business
Dr. Kataria has a strong teaching experience of more than 24. He has spent considerable time working at UPES, whereby in addition to teaching postgraduate and undergraduate levels, he has been involved in conducting multiple training programs for corporates in India and abroad.
Assistant Professor-Selection Grade
Contact
nkataria@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy