Dr. Singh enthusiastically teaches his courses. He interacts with students and uses several demonstrations during his classes for the clarity of the topic. He aims to establish the fundamental concepts of the subject, provide numerous problems to reinforce the concepts and conduct experiments with the students to help them gain a deep understanding of the concepts of physics. Apart from the classroom, he also mentor’s students for research projects and dissertations in the areas of Astronomy and Astrophysics.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Balendra P. Singh specializes in Astrophysics and Astronomy and received his PhD from the Center for Theoretical Physics, an autonomous research center affiliated with Jamia Millia Islamia University, New Delhi.  He obtained his master's degree in Theoretical Astrophysics from Jamia Millia Islamia and bachelor’s in physics from Allahabad University. During his PhD, he worked on the image formation of Black Hole Shadow and found the best supporting models of gravity to explain the behavior of the flow of matter and radiation around a black hole. The first image of the black hole was published by the Event Horizon Telescope group in April 2019 and in the discovery of the first astrophysical black hole, one of his papers cited.
Dr. Balendra Pratap Singh
Awards and Grants
Before joining UPES, Balendra P. Singh was Assistant Professor at Uttaranchal University Dehradun. There he taught B.Sc. and M.Sc. Physics courses. After that, he joined Tulas Institute Dehradun which is an affiliated college of Uttarakhand Technical University where he took Engineering Physics courses. He also delivered guest lectures on special topics of Astrophysics and Astronomy to the various colleges and Universities of India. Balendra P. Singh has more than five years of teaching and research experience.
Close
Faculty
Balendra P. Singh actively participates in and organizes National and International conferences and workshops. He has collaborators in the U.S.A., China, and South Africa. His research papers are published in reputable international journals and are cited by top researchers worldwide. Balendra P. Singh has published more than ten research papers in internationally reputed journals. He has more than 300 citations, the average citation per paper is 40, and the h-index is 5.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Balendra P. Singh is researching alternative theories of gravity, Black Holes in General Relativity, Neutron Stars, Thermodynamics of Black Holes, Black Holes' Shadow, Wormholes, Gravitational Lensing, Galaxy Clusters, Active Galaxy Nucleus, Expansion of the Universe, Dark energy and Dark Matter Models, Classical and Quantum Cosmology. Dr. Singh is trying to find a connecting bridge between Ancient Indian Cosmology and Modern Cosmology. He is also interested in observational astronomy and instrumentation for building optical and radio telescopes.
Profile Summary
Dr. Singh has passed some national-level examinations such as GATE, JEST, and SET, and he also received UGC research fellowship during his PhD. He has received the Best Researcher award by Global Education and Corporate Leadership (GECL-2022). He has also achieved the Best Teacher and Best Reader award during his academic work at Tulas Institute Dehradun. He has obtained several grants from the Uttarakhand Science Education and Research Center (USERC/2022-23/121) to organize workshops to enhance the Scientific Temperament and Science Popularization in Uttarakhand.
School of Advanced Engineering
balendrap.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Balendra P. Singh has taught Quantum Mechanics, Classical Mechanics, Mathematical Physics, Statistical Mechanics, Electrodynamics, Solid State Physics, Atomic and Molecular Physics to the M.Sc. and B.Sc.  students. He has also taken Engineering Physics courses for engineering stream students. Balendra P. Singh has designed some very specialized courses for the students of Astronomy and Astrophysics and is always eager to deliver his content to the desired students.
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy