Before joining UPES, Dr. Piyush Gaur was an Associate Professor at the School of Aeronautical Science, Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science, Chennai. He focuses on teaching subjects related to aerospace structures and Computational Mechanics. He also worked as a Postdoctoral Fellow on a DRDO-funded project at IIT Delhi from 2019-2020, where he led a team of 5 students focusing on the impact and blast response of human body soft tissues.
Research Interests
Home
Piyush Gaur
Dr. Gaur is an accomplished academic and research professional with over 9 years of research experience. His work focuses on cutting-edge experimental and computational biomechanics and advanced nanocomposite applications in the aerospace/defence industry. He is proficient in materials research and data analysis, boasting 20+ research publications, 15 conference presentations, and a strong portfolio of 10 published/filed patents.
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Gaur is a proponent of dynamic teaching methodologies, including active learning and project-based learning. He aspires to further employ this approach in developing novel interdisciplinary courses like "Ergonomics in Engineering Design" and "Mechanics of Soft Materials." His purpose goes beyond the mere transmission of information; he endeavours to empower students with the skills to proficiently generate, acquire, and apply knowledge.
Faculty
Mechanical
Dr. Piyush Gaur received an International Merit Scholarship from Coventry University to pursue MS in Automotive Engineering. His research on fatigue and fracture of adhesively bonded joints has also been funded by Jaguar Land Rover and TSB, a UK Government Research funding body. He is also the recipient of the Volvo Travel Fellowship awarded by TRIPP, IIT Delhi for 4 consecutive years. He is currently a SERB TARE fellow from 2023-2026.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Piyush Gaur teaches subjects related to design, structures, and computational methods. He teaches subjects like Strength of Materials, Engineering Mechanics, Machine Design, Finite Element Methods, Mechanical Behaviour of Materials, and Mechanics of Composite Materials, to name a few. Dr. Gaur's focus on interdisciplinary research enables him to teach introductory courses like Mechanobiology and Biomedical Instrumentation. He has also taught subjects related to defence technology.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Piyush Gaur's research interests include Experimental and Computational Biomechanics, Nanocomposites for Aerospace and Defense Applications, Human Body Modelling, Material Characterization, Impact, and Blast Mechanism.
Dr. Piyush's focus on interdisciplinary research related to experimental and computational biomechanics, nanocomposites, and human body modelling has led to the development of a small multidisciplinary team at UPES working on developing graphene-based Advanced combat helmets and lightweight materials for aerospace applications. His work has a strong focus on static and dynamic material characterization along with its modelling at the macro and micro level, enabling his team to understand the failure of materials under different loading conditions. His current funding includes a DST TARE grant, and seed money from UPES. Additionally, he has also submitted project proposals to ARDB, DRDO.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Contact
His past experiences also include working as a Graduate Teaching Assistant at Coventry University, a guest faculty at BITS Pilani, an Assistant Professor at JK Lakshmipat University, and an Associate Professor at Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science.
Piyush.gaur@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy