Completed her PhD from Deakin University, Burwood, VIC, Australia, under Deakin India Research Initiative (DIRI) Program, with full scholarship.
Research Interests
Dr. Tarandeep Kaur Bhatia
Home
Work Experience
Computer Graphics
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Dr. Tarandeep Kaur Bhatia received her Ph.D. degree in Computer Science Engineering from Deakin University, Australia, under Higher Degree by Research Scholarship. She is a Gold Medalist in M.Tech, Computer Science & Engineering Batch, 2015-2017. She has published several papers in reputed journals, presented papers at national and international conferences, and written book chapters. She has 22 patents under her name and has completed and conducted numerous Certified Faculty Development Programs (FDP). She has successfully completed certified trainings from the Queensland University of Technology, Australia, University of Leeds (England), and Murdoch University, Australia. Dr. Tarandeep Kaur is a Member of Reviewer Committee for the IEEE Communications Standards Magazine Journal, IEEE Access, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, Journal of Supercomputing, IET Communications, Physical Communications, and many more. She is also serving as an Editorial and Review Board Member for LC International Journal of STEM (LC-JSTEM) and Panel Member of the Technical Program Committee (TPC) of the COMS2-2021 conference.
Scholarly Activities
Gold Medalist and Batch Topper during M.Tech
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Bhatia’s believes in enhancing her teaching skills with modern technologies and approaches. She is also writing a few subject books with a student-friendly explanation that can help with her pupils’ comprehension.
Dr. T.K. Bhatia’s areas of interest are Vehicular Ad-hoc NETworks (VANETs), Data Congestion, Networking, Software Engineering, and Artificial Intelligence. She has worked with various simulators and tools such as NS-2, MATLAB, Omnet++, SUMO, VEINS for her research work.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Dr. Tarandeep Kaur Bhatia has published 28+ research papers in the reputed SCI & Scopus-indexed journals. She has 22 patents to date under her name. She is an active reviewer of 21+ SCI journals as well as Scopus-indexed international conferences. She is currently working on a project that got approved for funding support from NewGen IEDC. She has good knowledge of several software tools such as Overleaf, Vos Viewer, etc.
Contact
Dr. Tarandeep Kaur Bhatia had research and teaching experience of 6+ years with three universities – Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana; Chitkara University, Punjab; and currently, with UPES, Dehradun.
Networking
tarandeep.bhatia@ddn.upes.ac.in
Big Data
Retail Management
Software Engineering
Teaching Philosophy