Dr. Wadhwa is currently leading a collaborative UGC-DAE CSR project, investigating the properties of palladium-based composites for hydrogen sensing and storage applications. She has been a part of the prestigious DST-UKIERI Project, a collaborative project between India and the UK, and has collaborated with esteemed institutions worldwide. She is also actively guiding 3 Ph.D. scholars and has a remarkable record of attending 30 National and International conferences in India and abroad. She has delivered around 15 invited talks and her prolific research contributions include 52 research articles with a total impact factor of 235, h-index of 17, i10-index of 26, over 900 citations, 9 book chapters, and 2 complete Indian patents. Dr. Wadhwa is a lifetime member of esteemed professional societies such as the Royal Society of Chemistry (MRSC), the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), and the Northern Ireland Biomedical Engineering Society (NIBES).
Research Interests
Dr. Wadhwa firmly believes in creating a supportive and encouraging environment to facilitate student learning. She actively inspires students through various teaching methods such as the 'Flipped Classroom' method of teaching. It is an educational approach in which the traditional roles of in-class instruction and homework are reversed or "flipped." In this model, students are exposed to instructional content, such as lectures or readings, outside of the classroom, typically through digital resources like videos or online materials. Class time is then dedicated to interactive activities, discussions, problem-solving, and other engaging exercises that allow students to apply and deepen their understanding of the material. The aim of the flipped classroom is to enhance active learning, encourage critical thinking, and provide more personalized interactions between teachers and students during face-to-face sessions.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
shikha.wadhwa@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Dr. Shikha Wadhwa
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Wadhwa served as an Assistant Professor at the Amity Institute of Nanotechnology, Amity University, from 2014 to 2020. She also worked as a Research Associate at Knowledge Advisory Services & Consultancy, Delhi, from 2013 to 2014, where she was responsible for research and technical report writing for marketing and consultancy purposes. Additionally, she worked as a Research Associate at Nanotechnology & Integrated Bio-Engineering Centre (NIBEC), Ulster University, UK, from 2011 to 2012. Dr. Wadhwa has an extensive experience in teaching, course design and development, invigilation & evaluation, examination coordination, project evaluation, research, and publication. She is also adept at writing research proposals and patent filings.
Throughout her academic journey, Dr. Wadhwa has been recognized for her exceptional achievements. She achieved 3rd rank in MSc at the University and received the Vice Chancellors’ Research Scholarship to pursue her PhD degree in 2007. She was honoured with the 'Industry Expert' award by the Amity Institute of Nanotechnology, Amity University Noida, in 2014. Dr. Wadhwa also received the DST-UKIERI award from the Department of Science & Technology in 2017 to work on "Facilitating the Intelligent Management of Chronic Wounds in Diabetic Patients". Currently, she is actively involved in the UGC-DAE CSR collaborative project titled "Investigation of the interaction of hydrogen with Pd-Ag and Pd-GO alloy thin films for hydrogen sensing and storage applications".
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Wadhwa is a renowned scientist with a growing interest in Nanomaterials Engineering, aiming to apply her fundamental knowledge to solve real-world problems for societal benefits. She obtained her Ph.D. degree from Ulster University, UK, in 2011, M.Tech. (Nanotechnology) from Amity University Uttar Pradesh in 2007, MSc (Organic Chemistry) from Delhi University in 2005, and BSc (H) Chemistry from Delhi University in 2003. Her primary research focus involves exploring nanomaterials and composites for photocatalytic degradation of water contaminants and sensing analytes. Dr. Wadhwa is also a co-founder of Neanic Solutions Pvt Ltd, an Edu-Tech establishment specializing in upcoming disruptive technologies.
Dr. Wadhwa's research interests include Nanomaterials Development, Nanomaterials Engineering, Photocatalysis, Detection of Analytes, Water Purification, and Healthcare Applications.
Contact
Dr. Wadhwa imparts her expertise in chemistry courses, particularly Organic Chemistry with a focus on Spectroscopic Techniques, Physical Chemistry involving Crystal Structure, Solutions, and Gases, and Analytical Chemistry involving Separation & Electroanalytical Techniques. She has also taught Nanotechnology and Chemistry-related subjects such as Chemistry for Nanomaterials, Industrial Applications of Nano-sized Materials, Nanostructured Surfaces for Photocatalytic Applications, Introduction to materials, Interfacial Nanochemistry, Properties of nanomaterials, and Scientific Data Analysis Techniques in Nanotechnology.
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy