Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Before joining UPES, Dr. Vamsi Krishna was at the Sri Aditya Engineering College as an assistant professor and head of the Department of Petroleum Engineering and acted as an overall laboratory coordinator for petroleum engineering labs.
Resource efficiency and waste management are the two most important tools to smart, sustainable, and inclusive development. My Research vision amalgamates concepts of multi-dimensional Research, consultancy, and implementation. The Research vision includes changes in Environment and Energy, sustainability space that last for decades together. The Research mainly focusses on judicious use of resources, safeguarding environment and enhancement of sustainable inputs and practices.
Dr. Vamsi Krishna received outstanding award for establishing “Digital Oil Field” setup at UPES, Dehradun and Best Paper Award in International Conferences on Materials & Sustainable Engineering in Chemical and Allied Industry (MSECAI-2022) and International conference on “Advances in the field of Health, Safety, Fire, Environment, Allied Sciences and Engineering, (HSFEA 2016)”. He successfully completed one consultancy project titled “Improving the characteristics of Halophytic algae for reducing acidic components of effluent treatment plant wastewater” in 2018.
Close
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Vamsi Krishna teaches the elective on Computational fluid dynamics and Unconventional Gas Reservoirs. He investigates the flow behaviour of hydrocarbons and designing an optimum field development plan using various reservoir simulators. In another stream of work, he teaches the extraction techniques from various unconventional gas reservoirs like Coal bed Methane, Shale Gas and Gas Hydrates.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Vamsi Krishna Kudapa, Associate Professor, working in Department of Chemical Engineering, UPES, Dehradun Since 2013. Before UPES, he worked as an Assistant Professor and Head in the Department of Petroleum Engineering, Sri Aditya Engineering College, Andhra Pradesh. He pursued his Ph.D. in Oil and gas – Modelling and Simulation from UPES, Dehradun in 2018. In his 10 years of experience labs like the Drilling Fluids & Cementation Lab and Petroleum Product Testing Lab was developed. In addition, a unique prototype model “Digital Oil Field” was developed at UPES in 2015, which is a combination of Gas lift and oil-spill control mechanism apparatus. Presently, he has 23 Publications, 2 Patents, 5 Book Chapters, and 1 Book to his credit. He is presently working on solar energy applications in Agriculture, nanoparticle applications in drilling fluids and cementation, Enhanced Oil Recovery, Modelling, and simulation of Unconventional gas reservoirs.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
vkkudapa@ddn.upes.ac.in
Energy
Dr. Vamsi Krishna Kudapa
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Vamsi Krishna has led multidisciplinary teams on graduate and undergraduate major & minor projects to better understand the role of nanoparticles in various industrial sectors like oil & gas and agriculture sector. His work also includes designing an effective field development plan for optimum hydrocarbon extraction from reservoirs. His work has a strong approach towards hands on experience and knowledge sharing for students involving in the projects. He has 23 Publications, 2 Patents, 5 Book Chapters and 1 Book in his credit. He has completed a project worth of 0.4 Lakh.
Dr. Vamsi Krishna teaching viewpoint is supported in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. He has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class. This predefined quiz and assignment’s help the students in understanding the real time solutions.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy