Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Kailash Pandey was associated with APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India, where he served as an Assistant Professor. Dr. Pandey was also associated with Galgotia’s College of Engineering and Technology and Ajay Kumar Garg Engineering College Ghaziabad. Before that, he worked as a Senior Research Fellow in a BRNS-sponsored project on neutron-induced cross-section calculations of isotopes of interest for advanced nuclear technologies. He is also a Certified Nuclear Security Personnel from WINS, Vienna, Austria.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Kailash Pandey is a nuclear physicist with expertise in theoretical nuclear physics, particularly involving the calculation of nuclear cross-sections. With over 15 years of experience in teaching and research, he is well-versed in nuclear model-based calculations. He is a highly motivated and results-driven professional with a diverse skill set and a passion for continuous learning.
Awards and Grants
Dr. Kailash Pandey has been awarded a BRNS-sponsored grant for the development of Vacuum Photodiode Detectors for vacuum ultraviolet detection in ADITYA-U tokamak at IPR, Gandhinagar, Gujarat.
kpandey@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Dr. Kailash Pandey has taught courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels, including Engineering Physics, Basic Electronics Engineering, Laser Systems and Applications, Nuclear and Particle Physics, Interaction of Radiation with Matter, Radiation Safety, Classical Mechanics, and Laboratory courses.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kailash Pandey is a member of international agencies such as WINS (World Institute of Nuclear Security) and INSEN (International Nuclear Security Education Network) in Vienna, Austria. He is also a life member of the Indian Association of Physics Teachers and the Indian Physics Association. He has published several research papers in refereed journals and actively contributes to the development of e-content for different universities. Additionally, he has authored several book chapters in diverse fields.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Kailash Pandey's research interests include theoretical and experimental nuclear physics, material science, and solar energy.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Dr. Kailash Pandey's teaching philosophy revolves around learner-centric approaches. He firmly believes in creating an environment where both learners and teachers embrace future-oriented changes in teaching techniques.
Applied Sciences
Dr. Kailash Pandey
Teaching Philosophy