Mathematical Physics – II
He was selected as TEQIP Faculty under NPIU in the year 2017
Research Interests
Dr. Ghosh has published various articles in reputed national and international journals. He is serving as a Reviewer in various international journals like Mathematics and Computing, Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics etc. In addition to this, he is also involved in the supervision of undergraduate and postgraduate students’ dissertations. Furthermore, he acts as a member of committees at the Departmental level of UPES, Bidholi Campus.
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Commutative Ring (Int. BSc-MSc Mathematics)
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Number Theory (Int. BSc-MSc Mathematics)
Close
Dr. Debashis Ghosh
Working on his research project, which applies combinatorial designs and algebra to coding theory and cryptography. The component-based system has many parameters, and the interaction of these parameters may cause the existence and failure of the design. The study of such designs and their applications has been an active field of research over the last few decades. Dr. Ghosh investigates the construction (done in his research work), and optimality criteria (by various FMCDM procedures) of the breaking point, of these designs
Faculty
Advanced Engineering Mathematics – I
Scholarly Activities
Besides these,
Courses Taught
The following courses are taught by Dr. Ghosh,
Eligibility Criteria
.
debashis.ghosh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Ghosh used to teach and interact with the students on different fields of mathematics and their applications. Apart from mathematics, Dr. Ghosh likes to play correspondence chess at chess.com.
Before joining UPES, he worked in various organizations related to undergraduate studies from 2007, as a Lecturer and was later promoted to Assistant Professor. Dr Ghosh was involved in Master's degree courses from 2019 to 2021. In his teaching experience, he has taken classes on the special requirement at NIT, Durgapur for the B.Tech. 1st and 3rd Semester batches on a contract basis.
Dr. Debashis Ghosh is interested in working on various Combinatorial Designs and aligning abstract algebra together towards application on various codes and cryptographic fields.
The experience Dr. Ghosh has achieved by taking a variety of courses, ranging from beginning undergraduate to advanced graduate ones. In the lower division classes, he emphasizes the use of various methods and techniques, while making sure that the students can select the most appropriate one(s) in each situation. Since these students need the most assistance from the teacher, He constantly encourages them to ask questions and to come to his office hours. In the upper division classes and honors classes, Dr. Ghosh emphasizes mathematical proofs and the importance of being rigorous. He also takes into account the special interests of the students, that is, whether they want to apply mathematics to various areas such as computer science, to teach mathematics, or to do research in mathematics. Thus, he illustrates the material with appropriate examples related to the interest. He also shows his students how the material leads towards current research problems and enhances their confidence to address such problems, sometimes by using the computer also.
Contact
Advanced Engineering Mathematics – II
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy
NET Qualified as Junior Research Fellowship conducted by CSIR – UGC (2008).