pratiksha.bhardwaj@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj teaches Constitutional Law, Family Law both Hindu Law and Muslim Law, Indian Contract Act and Law of Torts. She teaches legal concepts relevant and accessible to students from diverse background.
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj’s teaching philosophy revolves around student-centric education, where the learning process is tailored to the individual need and aspiration of each student. She believes in creating an engaging learning environment that encourages active participation, critical thinking and collaboration, by incorporating real world examples, case studies, and interactive discussions.
Profile Summary
Talking about her Research, she has 14 publications, which includes 8 UGC Care listed and 6 in other reputed journals at National and International level.
Assistant Professor
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj is Assistant Professor in law with expertise in Constitutional Law, Family Law both Hindu Law and Muslim Law, Indian Contract Act and Law of Torts. She brings a comprehensive understanding of legal principles and their practical applications. Her research works are published in journals of repute at National and International levels journals. With a focus on these areas, she aims to impart valuable knowledge to students while fostering critical thinking and analytical skills within the legal framework.
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj has a total of 6 years of experience. Before joining UPES, she was at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, Punjab at the position of Assistant Professor Law. She has 3 years of Industrial experience. She has worked as a Junior Advocate in Shimla Bar Association.
Contact
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj has an experience in teaching as well as in Industries. She has coordinated various events like Intra Moot Competitions, National and International Conferences and other departmental works. She has supervised LLM students under her guidance. She has lead various departmental Committees.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Pratiksha Bhardwaj has been awarded with 3rd Prize at H.P. State Science Fair. She has received the best orator award during her graduation.  She has received best teacher award at Chandigarh University.