Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Binod Kumar Singh
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
binodsingh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Binod teaching philosophy is to develop student’s decision making process. He has incorporated real live problems based on real data into classes using assignments, case studies and conducting random quizzes. He used software related to statistics in classes and involved students to draw right inference from output. Using real life problems helps students move from learner to professional thinking.
Decision Sciences I LSCM I General Management
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
He obtained his PhD in Statistics on "Estimation Procedure Using Asymmetric Loss Function" from the Faculty of Science at Banaras Hindu University, India. His thrust areas are statistics, operations research, quantitative methods, research methodology and Business Analytics. He has published 48 research papers in international and national peer-reviewed journals and authored two books. In addition, he has actively participated in national and international conferences.
Conducted workshop on Quantitative Research Methods & Techniques at Himalayiya University, Dehradun on 6th, 13th and 22nd March 2022.Conducted workshop on Statistics and 7QC Tools for IOCL Official at IIPM, Gurgaon on Nov 15,2019.Delivered talk on the topic “Use of Hypothesis Testing in Research” under Knowledge Sharing Platform organized CoMES, UPES, Dehradun on July 16, 2016.Invited by ISM, Ranchi as a resource person for two days for Staff Development Program held on 14-15,March, 2010 on the theme Applications of Quantitative technique in Managerial Decisions. Invited by Central Coal Field (CCL) to take a lecture on the topic Application of Statistics in finance on 14th January, 2009 in a training program organized for the Finance Executives of CCL.
Before Joining UPES, Dr. Binod was at Amity Business School. He has over 16 years of teaching experience.
Profile Summary
Received outstanding reviewer award from ELSEVIER, Received CoMES-CIMA Best Research Award, and Ambassador of the Asian Council of Science Editors (The ACSE). Appreciated by Science Alert Peer Review System as a Valued Reviewer of Asian Journal of Mathematics and Statistics, Singapore Journal of Scientific Research, The International Journal of Applied Economics and Finance, Asian Journal of Marketing and Research Journal of Business Management. Appreciated by Wudpecker Journals (Publishing House: 73023 Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria) as a Valued Reviewer of Research Journal of Business Management & Accounting.
School of Business
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Dr. Binod teaches Quantitative methods, Business Research Methods, Business Analytics and Spread sheet Modelling.
Teaching Philosophy