Research Interests
Design Thinking. User Experience Design, HCI. Eye Tracking. Visual Perception. Design Research. Technology for Social Innovation. Printmaking, Art, History & Aesthetics, and culture studies.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
She uses her Industry and Research experience in teaching User-experience design for In-Vehicle Infotainment, Design Strategy, Prototyping User Interfaces, and Designing for Social Interaction. In a more holistic Design Research paradigm, she examines the Design Research Methodology, Design Thinking, Ethics, User Experience, Design heuristics, and Visual Perception studies. Furthering intersectional streams like Form and Aesthetics, Theoretical and Evaluative Frameworks and Visual Arts through the Creative Processes.
Associate Professor
Faculty
She was granted the Junior and Senior Research Fellowship by UGC, while at IITB, and won several awards and recognition in Art events and Exhibitions.
Dr. Susmita is a multi-disciplinary educator, researcher, consultant and practitioner in Art, Design-Studies and User Experience for HCI. This multi-dimensional profile has enabled her to continuously practice and inform her Design Pedagogy. She did her PhD. From IDC-School of Design, IITB. Her Doctoral thesis explored ways of decoding Visual Perception by analysing Visual response through Eye-tracking. She did her MFA from Sir J J School of Art, Mumbai, and taught there as a visiting Faculty. She has her art studio and as a practising artist for several years, she has held several arts, Printmaking exhibitions, and solo shows, at the Prestigious Jehangir Art Gallery Mumbai, Lalit Kala Academy New Delhi, Govt. Museum and Art Gallery Chandigarh, CKP Bangaluru etc.
Scholarly Activities
An independent researcher, consultant, mentor and faculty for Design Innovation and Experience Design for UX/UI, Dr Susmita has been a visiting professor for various design schools like IDC School of Design, IITB, NID, and NIFT for many Design courses. In the Industry, she worked with E-Learning companies and consultant for UX/UI, HCI, and Design Thinking for Start-ups and Innovation.
As a design educator and mentor, she believes in facilitating a learning environment to encourage at both active and passive levels in building conceptual domain knowledge, Skill building and critical analysis while delivering the learning outcome. She encourages empathy, experience, and experimentation in the Design pedagogy with exposure to real-life scenarios. It is important for her that there is interaction and collaboration as groups and units, along with a healthy opinion-critique atmosphere, where ideas can be discussed, and value can be added through peer, collaborative learning.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Susmita Sharma Yadav
Profile Summary
Creativity, Design Process and Technology are the tools that accelerate her faculty role and research endeavours at UPES. She has published several research papers, chaired conference tracks, and organized, and conducted courses/workshops at International/National Conferences and Design Institutes. She is an instructor for the online Design Thinking certification Course by the TCS ion certification Programme and has been co-instructor for Continuing Education Training Programme (CEP), and clinics for innovation and entrepreneurship.
School of Design
Contact
susmitab.yadav@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy