Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Teaching Philosophy
Close
School of Computer Science
Sandeep Pratap Singh
Faculty
He has a total academic experience of more than 10 years. Before joining UPES, he worked at OIST, Bhopal for 4 years as an Assistant Professor from 2012-2016.During the span of the last 10 years of his academic career, other than teaching he has served in various administrative roles like Placement Coordinator, Accreditation team member, Student chapters Coordinator, Spoken Tutorial Coordinator, Examination Team, and Project Committees. He has also organized academic events like UHackathon, SEP, International conferences like NGCT, PGDC, ICMLDE, etc., several workshops and FDPs.
His major research concentration has been in the areas of Image processing, computer vision, machine learning. His research has been published in reputed SCI/SCOPUS journals and conferences. He has guided 5 masters’ dissertations.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Sandeep Pratap Singh is pursuing his Ph.D. in CSE and completed his MTech in CSE from Jaypee University of Information Technology, Solan, India. His areas of interest are Image processing, Computer Vision and Security. He has published several research articles in high-impact factor SCI / SCOPUS journals and conferences. He has also published technical books in his field.
Assistant Professor, (SG)
spsingh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
During the span of the last 10 years in academics, he has been teaching diverse subjects related to computer science engineering from core subjects to programming subjects and specialisation subjects.  Some of the courses, which he has taught in recent years are- Data communication and computer networks, computer system architecture, operating systems, principles of programming language, cloud computing architectures, introduction to virtualisation and cloud, managing virtual environment, information storage and management, AWS cloud foundation certification, etc.
Sandeep holds the conviction that teaching is a form of art, entailing the spark of curiosity within the minds of learners. Guided by these principles, he finds immense joy in both teaching and learning.