Dr. Iram's teaching philosophy is that she takes the initiative towards students to open the doors of good communication for effective communication and develops a sincere attitude towards her students, and shows a concern for both their academic as well as extracurricular activities. This helps as a building block of mutual respect and students' a better understanding of academics. Similarly, being open to a wide range of opinions and ideas also sets standards in theory classes, tutorial hours, practical classes with improvising teaching such as pre-reading assignments, quizzes, and questioning, current pharmaceutical upgrades, including innovative ideas, technology as well as practical hands-on gives better learning experience.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Iram has received many accolades during her academic career, which includes research funding received from ICMR and AICTE. She has also received Travel grants from DST-SERB, CSIR and WCN. She was awarded by Jamia Hamdard for High Impact Research Publication as well as Best Poster Presentation. Also he has been a Moderator at the 8th International Conference on Central Nervous Systems held in Dubai (December 2019). She is also a Recipient of 3.5Lakh (INR) Award for Excellence in Academics for the session 2010-2014 by IIMT College of Medical Sciences (Meerut). She has been given the Best Presentation Award, and also declared Best in Academics for 3 yrs. She also received Gold Medal and cash prizes during her academic career.
Close
Iram teaches in-Pharmaceutics Division and Lectured about Hospital Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Engineering.
Faculty
Dr. Iram distinguished herself by submitting an exceptionally well-researched and interesting project on “Electrospun nanofiber for the targeted release of anti-tumor drug in the cerebral cavity.” She is highly intelligent and has good analytical skills, research aptitude, and organizational skills. She is one of the researchers who extract some ideas during the transition from taught courses to research. She has a thorough knowledge of the nanotechnology-based formulation development experiments performed during research work. In addition to sound scientific knowledge, she possesses a stable, practical hand and can undertake any research work in an extremely precise and systematic manner. She has a fine analytical ability, which enables her to resolve research problems and interpret experimental results, which are evidenced by her publications in international journals. She also actively participated in conferences and seminars > 40, including 2 International, throughout her research period, which helped her grow as a researcher.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Iram Khan, having a Doctoral of Philosophy Degree in Pharmaceutics Specialization in Quality Assurance from Dept. of Pharmaceutics, SPER, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, has worked on project funded by ICMR as a Sr. Research Fellow. She has also worked in a Lab-cum-project –at IIT Roorkee on a project entitled Electrospun nanofiber for the targeted release of anti-tumor drug in the cerebral cavity. She graduated in Pharmacy (B. Pharm) and was declared Gold Medalist of the State University (UPTU) and completed her Master's in Quality Assurance (M. Pharm) and declared batch topper. She is an active participant in extracurricular activities and well-versed in the use of modern analytical techniques. A major contributor and organizer of both scientific and non-scientific programs at university level.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Iram was at Jamia Hamdard for a Doctoral degree, and earlier, she worked at the Translam Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research at Meerut and worked as Assistant Professor from August 2016 to December 2016; in Pharmaceutics Division.
Profile Summary
Nano-formulation development and their in-vitro, in-Vivo & ex Vivo evaluation, biomaterials (polymer and biopolymer), a nano-micro formulation in the form of nanofiber, complex Nano formulation (chelation), hydrogel/block polymer (nanoparticle, fiber) for the site-specific drug (small molecule to macromolecular) delivery.
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Assistant Professor
Contact
iram.khan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Iram Khan