Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Awasthi’s name has been featured in the top percentile rank of 2% scientist globally in the Stanford University, California list. His biography is included in Who’s Who in World®, recognizing his achievements in pharmaceutical research.
Novel drug delivery systems I Nanomedicine I Excipient development I Pharmaceutical product development I Micro/nano delivery
At the undergraduate level, Dr. Awasthi taught novel drug delivery systems, industrial pharmacy, biopharmaceutics and pharmacokinetics, and pharmaceutical technology. His graduate-level teaching experience includes courses in biopharmaceutics and pharmacokinetics, advanced product development, research methodology, and the use of AI to healthcare. He also taught research methodology to Ph.D. scholars.
Dr. Awasthi has worked with multidisciplinary teams on national and international collaborative projects on developing drug delivery systems. His work has a solid approach to innovation where drug molecules are targeted to the brain for treating neurodegenerative disorders and to target therapeutic moieties to the skin for treating skin diseases like psoriasis. He has expertise in developing nanomedicines encapsulating synthetic and natural moieties. Besides the drug delivery domain, his fundamental interest is the development of pharmaceutical excipients. He has isolated and tested various natural polymers for pharmaceutical, cosmetic, and food applications.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Awasthi's teaching philosophy centers on cultivating a dynamic and engaging learning environment in the pharmaceutical sciences. He believes in fostering a collaborative and student-centered approach, encouraging active participation, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills. Dr. Awasthi aims to inspire a passion for lifelong learning by integrating real-world examples and research into his teaching methods. He strives to create a supportive atmosphere that values diverse perspectives, promotes ethical conduct, and encourages curiosity and innovation. Through personalized guidance, mentorship, and effective communication, Dr. Awasthi endeavors to empower students with the knowledge and skills necessary for success in the pharmaceutical field and beyond.
Dr. Awasthi has over 18 years of professional experience and is an associate professor at the UPES. He obtained his Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Sciences from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, India. His scholarly interests range widely from developing various novel micro- to nanoparticulate drug delivery systems. He has authored over 180 scientific documents in various high-impact journals with a cumulative impact factor >350 (Clarivate Analytics). He has one Indian (design) patent and two Australian innovation patents. He has supervised two Ph.D. scholars (awarded) and more than 16 postgraduate students. Presently, he is supervising five Ph.D. scholars. His biography has been included in Who’s Who in World®. His name has been included in the top percentile rank of 2% scientists globally published by Stanford University, California (for 2021, 22, 23, and 24), recognizing his achievements in pharmaceutical research.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Rajendra Awasthi
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Dr. Awasthi has over 18 years of professional experience. Before joining UPES, Dr. Awasthi was at Amity University, Noida. He also worked for the Laureate Institute of Pharmacy, Himachal Pradesh, and MIET, Meerut. He also served as Professor and Principal at the NKBR College of Pharmacy and Research Centre, Meerut. Dr. Awasthi started his professional career with Torrent Pharmaceuticals, Ahmedabad in year 2006.
Contact
rajendra.awasthi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy