Research Interests
Monica believes that a dedicated, resourceful, and goal-driven educator contributes to the academic growth and development of every student in the classroom. As a Taxation Law faculty, she devotes her time and effort to become a more effective teacher. She believes and motivates her students that "there is no shortcut in life" and "the sum of small efforts, repeated day in and day out, leads to success." With her industry experience, Monica guides students regarding their career programs and helps them develop soft skills.
Monica has published various articles, papers, and book chapters in national and international journals, including:
Home
Work Experience
A chapter on "The Impact of Carbon Effect on Climate Change in India: A Need for Energy-Efficient Fuels," published in the book Global Thoughts and Opinions edited by Honorable Justice A.K. Sikri.
Close
Monica has taught Taxation laws, Goods and Services Tax, Corporate Tax, Company laws, Public International Laws, Labour Law, Law of Torts, and Consumer Protection Law.
Research Paper on "RBI as Regulator and Changing Role," published in the Centre for Banking Investment & Taxation, GNLU Law Journal, Gandhinagar National Law University, Gujarat.
A chapter on "The Impact of IT Rules, 2021, on Social Media in India," published in the book Global Thoughts and Opinions edited by Honorable Justice A.K. Sikri.
Faculty
Monica's research focuses on developing sustainable policies and legal frameworks to facilitate development and promote economic growth in the country. She also has research interests in taxation laws, energy law, and company law.
Research Paper on "Medical Negligence in India," presented at the 2nd International Conference organized by Galgotias University and published in Lex Et Societatis.
Scholarly Activities
Monica Pradyot
Prior to joining UPES, Monica worked as an Associate for 1.5 years in D H Law Associates (now Dentons Link Legal), Mumbai Office, in the Banking and Finance team. She also worked as a visiting faculty at the School of Law, UPES, for 5 years.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Profile Summary
Research Paper on "Exploring the Role of Carbon Taxation Policies on CO2 Emissions: A Comparative Analysis with Japan," published in the Scopus Journal of European Chemical Bulletin.
Assistant Professor
Research Paper on "Sustainable Development: An Indian Case Study," published in the International Journal of Research in Economics and Social Sciences.
monica.pradyot@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Paper on "Is India Truly on the Path of a Sustainable Future? A Study on the Legal Approach to Energy-Efficient Fuels in India towards Reducing Carbon Emissions," published in the International Journal of Research in Social Sciences.
Contact
Monica Pradyot completed her graduation in BBA LL.B (specialization in Corporate Laws) in 2015 and post-graduation in LL.M (specialization in Energy Laws) in 2017. She is currently pursuing her Ph.D. with a focus on Energy and Environment Laws. Monica is an expert in Taxation Law and has been teaching the subject for the past 4 years. She joined the School of Law, UPES, as an Assistant Professor in June 2022. Monica serves as the Faculty Convenor of Jigyasa (Quiz Club) and Faculty Co-Convenor of Youth Parliament at SoL, UPES. Additionally, she is a member of the Student Training and Placement Committee and Industrial Collaborations at SoL, UPES. Monica has also received certificates for completing courses on 'Energy Within Environmental Constraints' from Harvard University and 'Renewable Energy & Green Building Entrepreneurship' from Duke University, North Carolina, USA.
Teaching Philosophy
Research Paper on "Wrongful Termination of Employees during Covid-19: An Analysis of Labor Codes," published in the International Journal of Research in Social Sciences.