2. Sachdeva, C., & Singh, T. (2024). The impact of green human resource management on employee green behaviour in higher education institutions: the mediating role of green self-efficacy. International Journal of Education Economics and Development, 15(3), 337-358.(Scopus Indexed, Cite Score 1.1)
Research Interests
Awarded Junior Research Fellowship (UGC-JRF) by University Grants Commission.
Home
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Dr. Chetna Sachdeva
1. Sachdeva, C., & Singh, T. (2024). Green transformational leadership and pro-environmental behaviour: unravelling the underlying mechanism in the context of hotel industry. International Journal of Organizational Analysis, 32(2), 255-271. (ABDC-B, ESCI, and Scopus Indexed, Cite Score 5.4; Impact factor- 2.9) https://doi.org/10.1108/IJOA-09-2022-3420
Scholarly Activities
Chetna's dedication extends to preparing future business leaders through thoughtfully curated content in areas like Business Ethics, Organizational Change and Intervention Strategies, and Strategic Human Resource Management, using interactive examples and industry-relevant cases tailored to Indian and international contexts.
3. Sachdeva, C., & Singh, T. (2022). A Thematic Analysis of Drivers Related to Green Human Resource Management. In Proceedings of the 2nd Indian International Conference on Industrial Engineering and Operations Management, Warangal, Telangana, India.
Courses Taught
Dr. Chetna Sachdeva has completed PhD in Organizational Behaviour and Human Resource Management from Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad. She is currently serving as an Assistant Professor specializing in Human Resource Management at the School of Business, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun, India. She holds expertise in areas such as Strategic Human Resource Management, Organizational Behaviour, and Employee Relations.
Eligibility Criteria
Chetna Sachdeva’s teaching, research, and work experience have covered various subjects, including human resource management, organizational behaviour, strategic human resource management, business ethics and CSR and organisational change and intervention strategies. She readily commits the effort required to effectively teach undergraduate and postgraduate classes in these subjects.
3. Third Best Paper Award and Cash Prize of 10,000/- in the HR Track for paper presented at the International Conference on Sustainability organized by IIT Roorkee on 9th and 10th April 2022, Paper: Sachdeva, C. and Singh, T. (2022) ‘' A Thematic Analysis of the barriers concerning Green Human Resource Management’.
Chetna Sachdeva’s teaching philosophy is to develop students as critical thinkers, providing them with a solid technical foundation and illuminating the societal implications of the discipline.
2. Best Paper Award, Jaipuria Institute of Management Indore, in, 3rd International Conference on Envisioning Business 2020’, Track Human Resource Management, Paper: Sachdeva, C. & Singh, T. (2020). A Conceptual Clarity on Green HRM and Exploring the Antecedents and Consequences.
4. Third Best Paper Award, School of Management Studies Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad, IPR Cell MNNIT, III Cell MNNIT, and IEEE (UP Chapter), March 19th – 21st, 2021, Track Human Resource Management for the Paper Titled, ‘Transformational Leadership for Job Satisfaction: Mediating role of Employee Engagement’ authored by Ms. Vincy Kachhap, Ms. Chetna Sachdeva and Dr. Tripti Singh.
5. Kachhap, V., Sachdeva, C., & Singh, T. (2024). Virtual teams effectiveness through transformational leadership, team competencies and employee engagement: A theoretical framework. Recent Trends in Management and Social Science, 1(1), 111-131.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Chetna Sachdeva’s work focuses on how green human resource management impact environmental sustainability through voluntary green behaviour in hotel industry operating in India. Her work extends to examining the role of contextual factors such as psychological green climate in the relationship between green HR practices and environmental sustainability and between green HR practices and pro-environmental behaviour.
4. Sachdeva, C., Singh, T. (2021). Green HRM on the path of achieving sustainability: The mediating role top management support. Recent trends in Management and Social Sciences,1,1-35. ISBN: 978-93-90818-55-6
Contact
6. Sachdeva, C., Singh, T. Green Human Resource Management in Hospitality: Navigating Sustainability, Gender Dynamics, and Pro-Environmental Behaviour in the Hotel Industry. Status: Accepted, Interdisciplinary Environmental Review (ABDC- C, Scopus Indexed)
chetna.sachdeva@ddn.upes.ac.in
Chetna's research contributions includes articles published in Scopus, ABDC and WoS Indexed Journal. She has presented her research in prominent international and national conferences.
Teaching Philosophy
Green human resource management I Hotel industry I Voluntary green behaviour I Moonlighting