Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Sr. Associate Professor
Faculty
akarn@ddn.upes.ac.in
Mechanical
Dr. Karn's teaching philosophy seamlessly integrates two foundational principles: 'teach what you research' and 'research what you teach.' This guiding principle has led to a multitude of pioneering, inventive methodologies within engineering education. An ardent advocate of active learning in this domain, he infuses his classroom instruction with a diverse array of dynamic techniques, including physical demonstrations, simulations, digital storytelling, computational tools, and beyond. In pursuit of this vision, Dr. Karn undertakes the creation of a spectrum of tailored computational tools and software, meticulously crafted to meet the distinct requirements of each learner. Further insights and access to these resources can be found at: drkarnteaching.com.
Scholarly Activities
His research interests include Experimental Fluid Dynamics, Aerodynamics, Multiphase Flows, Small and Kinetic Hydro Power and Indian Knowledge System in Science and Engineering.
Courses Taught
Dr. Ashish Karn
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Karn engages himself in various fields such as Engineering, Computer Science, Engineering Education, Mathematics, and Indian Knowledge Systems. His primary area of research is multiphase flows for a wide variety of applications ranging from underwater vehicles to the prevention of silt erosion in hydroturbines. He is a dedicated experimental fluid dynamicist exploring novel ways to visualize flows. His work in flow visualization and quantification has yielded fascinating scientific insights into contemporary Indian society. His research spans from highly technical endeavours—such as using bubbles to prevent silt erosion at hydropower stations—to more practical ones—such as explaining the flow mechanics of mustard seed propulsion from hot oils in an Indian kitchen. One of his recent groundbreaking works involves the physics of sound creation using an unusual Indian flute that does not require lips to be played. Dr. Karn's research is directly related to societal demands, and he has developed various game-like methods for imparting knowledge of science, mathematics, and other facets of Indian culture. Through his research, he raises compelling questions on the Eurocentric narrative of scientific development. He has also investigated the origins of biomimicry in Indian culture and provided examples of its thorough application to several branches of engineering.
School of Advanced Engineering
Before joining UPES, Dr. Karn was a joint Graduate research assistant at St. Anthony Falls Laboratory and the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Minnesota Twin Cities, USA.
Dr. Karn has received several awards and grants both in India and abroad. He is the recipient of the Early Career Research Award from the Science and Engineering Research Board, DST India, as well as other grants from the National Innovation Foundation, India. He has also received multiple research grants from the Ministry of Education, GOI, for research on the Indian Knowledge Systems. He has been recognized at national-level competitions such as Toycathon-2021 and the COVID Innovation Challenge. He has also received the Edward Silberman Award and Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship for excellence in scientific research from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities.
Dr. Karn teaches undergraduate courses in Fluid Mechanics, Fluid Machinery, Heat Transfer, and Aerodynamics. He also takes a keen interest in teaching courses related to Image Processing, Data Science, and Programming. Additionally, he enjoys teaching courses on Biomimicry and Indian Knowledge Systems in Science and Engineering.
Contact
Dr. Karn is one of the leading researchers in Indian Knowledge Systems and works on several interesting and insightful research in science and engineering. He earned his undergraduate degree from IIT Delhi and completed his MS and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Minnesota, USA, along with a minor in Aerospace Engineering and Mechanics.
Teaching Philosophy