in LEAP 2022 annual awards at Go Digit General Insurance.
Research Interests
Shikhar Sharma
Extra Miler Spot Award
He strives to leverage his extensive corporate experience to provide students at UPES with practical and holistic learning opportunities.
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Received quarterly
shikhar.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
A postgraduate in management from IMT, Ghaziabad, Prof. Shikhar brings over 9 years of corporate experience, primarily in the strategy divisions of big 4 firms and new-age startups. During his tenure in the corporate sector, he developed tailored solutions for clients and executed diverse projects, including go-to-market strategies, growth plans, customer journey design, and sales enablement. His sectoral expertise lies in financial services, particularly in the fintech, insurance, and banking domains.
Awards and Grants
in 'Quizzitech 2014' at Delhi School of Economics.
Close
Awarded
Faculty
for Transformative Leadership in 2020.
Top Gun
Prof. Shikhar’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the belief that it is his responsibility to create an ecosystem where students actively participate in the learning process, rather than passively receiving information. The focus is on active learning, where students engage with course materials through case studies, brainstorming sessions, group work, and hands-on activities. Students are encouraged to ask questions, challenge assumptions, and critically analyze information. These methods not only reinforce key concepts but also foster critical thinking, ultimately equipping students to navigate a successful journey in the corporate sector.
Scholarly Activities
He also served as Associate Vice President at one of India’s leading insurtech start-ups, Go Digit General Insurance.
Inter B-School Competitions
Received
award by EY in 2020 – Recognized for exceptional commitment toward delivering excellence.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Strategic Management | Disruptive Innovation | Technology-Enabled Financial Inclusion | Analytics-Enabled Customer Journeys & Communication
During his consulting role, Prof. Shikhar published white papers, which involved developing in-depth reports on specific topics related to the Financial Services domain. He is also a recipient of the Performance Quality Review (PQR) award, where the best-in-class projects and white papers were showcased to EY's Global Development Services (GDS) leadership.
Before joining UPES, Prof. Shikhar held management-level positions at Deloitte and EY within their strategy consulting practices.
CAT 2012 – Secured a position in the top 5% percentile.
in 'Findrishti 2014' at IIM Shillong.
KUDOS
Profile Summary
2nd position
School of Business
Corporate
Contact
Bronze Certification
3rd position
at EY in 2016 for excellent project work and feedback.
UGC NET 2024 – Secured a position in the top 1% percentile in the Management category.
Secured
Education
Teaching Philosophy
Prof. Shikhar teaches courses in Strategic Management, Entrepreneurship, and Sustainability to MBA and BBA students.
Awarded EY