Dr. Manan’s teaching philosophy focuses on the aspects of diversity and inclusion, sensitivity and social consciousness, participation, facilitation, critical thinking and reflection, practical application, and creativity. Dr. Manan mobilizes a variety of techniques such as teaching by the case method, role play, perspective taking, sub-group activities, and experiential learning to engage participants with real-world situations and dilemmas encountered by organizational leaders and managers and facilitate them to apply and articulate different approaches.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Manan worked fulltime in Professional Assistance for Development Action (PRADAN) from 2016 to 2019, where he gained experience in fieldwork and participatory action research, project management, partnerships, corporate social responsibility, social entrepreneurship, personality and group processes, training and facilitation, human resource development, organization development, and diversity equity and inclusion. He has undertaken several research/writing projects, and he consults in the areas OD/HRD, CSR, DEI, and social entrepreneurship. Dr. Manan was a fulltime residential PhD scholar at Indian Institute of Management Indore from 2019 to 2024.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Manan was awarded the Institute Gold Medal for Academic Excellence at TISS. He was awarded the Organization Development Seminar Gold Medal for excellence in Industrial/Organizational Psychology, and the Janardan C. Mehta Memorial Gold Medal for excellence in Humanities and Social Sciences, at The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda. He has been awarded multiple Academy of Management doctoral student scholarships. Dr. Manan attended the Wharton Global Faculty Development Program organized by The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania.
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Alternative Organization; Social Entrepreneurship; Diversity Equity and Inclusion; Corporate Social Responsibility; Business Ethics; Personality and Group Processes; Occupational Health; Mental Health; Organization Development; Critical Management Studies; Social Change and Development
Profile Summary
Dr. Manan Pathak completed PhD in Organizational Behaviour and Human Resource Management from IIM Indore. Dr. Manan has attended the Wharton Global Faculty Development Program, organized by The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. He studied MA from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), and BA from The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda. He has presented his research in prominent international conferences such as the Academy of Management, British Academy of Management, and Gender Work and Organization. His research paper has been accepted for publication in
Dr. Manan teaches courses related to Organizational Behaviour and Human Resource Management to MBA and BBA participants.
School of Business
, an ‘A’ category journal in the Australian Business Deans Council list of journals.
Contact
journal (ABDC: A). Dr. Manan received the university gold medal for academic excellence during his BA, and MA, and has qualified the UGC-NET. He has experience of working in the areas of social development, fieldwork and participatory action research, social entrepreneurship, corporate social responsibility, training and facilitation, organization development, personality and group processes, and diversity equity and inclusion. His research interests focus on critically understanding how organizational forms and practices affect social change and development.
Dr. Manan completed his PhD in Organizational Behaviour and Human Resource Management at the Indian Institute of Management Indore. He has presented his research in prominent international conferences such as the Academy of Management, British Academy of Management, and Gender Work and Organization. His research paper has been accepted for publication in
Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly
Dr. Manan Pathak
manan.pathak@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy