Pharmacology II
Human Anatomy and Physiology II
Research Interests
Dr. Rakesh Kumar Mishra
rakeshk.mishra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
assessment of drugs in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis disease. He has worked on herbal formulations for various applications and learned different approaches of drug delivery systems and their physicochemical characterizations during his tenure as project assistant at CSIR – CIMAP, Lucknow.
Close
Faculty
model and allied experiments also.
Animal studies and Toxicity Assessment
efficacy and safety studies. He has experience of working on rheumatoid arthritis and knowledge of
My teaching philosophy centers on active student involvement, fostering a dynamic learning environment. I believe in continuous evolvement, adapting methods to meet diverse needs. Regular assessment ensures individual progress, promoting a collaborative journey towards academic excellence and growth.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
biological safety (cytocompatibility) of different blank and drug loaded nanocarriers. He has checked anti-inflammatory efficacy of formulations on RAW 246.7 macrophage cell line and developed DSS induced colitis mice model and performed
Dr. Mishra received doctoral fellowship from Department of Science and Technology, Govt. of India for his Ph.D. research. He has also awarded postdoctoral fellowship from St. John`s University, New York, USA.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Before joining UPES, Dr. Mishra was working as associate professor in Dattakala College of Pharmacy, Pune. He has done postdoctoral research from St. John`s University, New York, USA. During his postdoctoral training he worked on
Novel Drug Delivery Systems, Lipid Nanoparticles, Drug Repurposing, Inflammatory Diseases, Ulcerative Colitis
Assistant Professor
in-vitro
Dr. Mishra did his Ph.D. from Institute of Nano Science and Technology, Mohali (INST - Mohali) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER - Mohali). He has interdisciplinary research training of seven years in Chemical Biology, Cell culture techniques, animal handling, animal model dissection, histopathology, immunohistochemistry, Nanotechnology, Biophysical characterization of nanoparticles, Drug delivery, Nano-formulation etc. During his research tenure at INST, he optimized the
Contact
and
in-vivo
Teaching Philosophy
Emerging Technologies in Clinical Trials