Dr. Pachauri’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. He is dedicated to teaching and research with enthusiasm and commitment so that engineering students can spark their curiosity, accept the challenge(s) to grow, and inspire them to achieve their dreams. His goals in teaching are not just to promote learning of the technical subject matter but also to try to help the students to learn problem-solving methods and techniques, learn to think logically, improve writing skills clearly and concisely, explain systematic processes, provide valid reasons for logical arguments etc. In addition, he provides a participative and positive environment in the classroom/ tutorial/ laboratory where students are encouraged to express their ideas/ thoughts and participate in their education/ real-life experience through the case study as much as possible.
Dr. Pachauri has been awarded as a star researcher continuously since 2021 at UPES, Dehradun, for his research contribution. He has achieved the best paper awards and handled the seed fund projects at UPES, Dehradun.
Research Interests
rpachauri@ddn.upes.ac.in
Before joining UPES, Dr. Pachauri was associated with G. B. University, Gautam Buddha Nagar, India. Currently, In addition, he has engaged the Department of Energy, Environment & Climate Change, School of Environmental Resource and Development, Asian Institute of Technology, Pathum Thani, Thailand, for research collaboration in the field of Transactive energy management and fair coast allocation between the multi-energy carriers networked Microgrids.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Electrical
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Pachauri teaches subjects based primarily on solar photovoltaic technology and renewable energy sources. Moreover, he teaches fundamental subjects such as Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering to the first-year student, keeping in mind the development of basic concepts and interesting project development in the laboratory. In addition, he teaches signal and systems, network analysis, and measurement and instrumentation subjects as well. He motivates students to the case study, simulation, and experimental-based project development in the related subjects.
Dr. Rupendra Kumar Pachauri
Hydrogen fuel cell power generation, advanced strategies for performance enhancement of ground-mounted and float photovoltaic systems during dust aerosol, partial shading conditions, Renewable power generation forecasting using Artificial intelligence and Machine learning techniques, Embedded and IoT applications in Renewable Energy based micro-grids.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Pachauri is actively working with reputed researchers across the globe and is involved in international collaborative research publications and projects. Currently, he is guiding many PhD scholars in exploring novel ideas in renewable energy and applications. As part of this research collaboration, he is also associated with the Department of Energy, Environment & Climate Change, School of Environmental Resource and Development, AIT, Pathum Thani, Thailand, for the project research collaboration in Transactive energy management and fair coast allocation between the multi-energy carriers networked Microgrids. In addition to this, he is an expert in the area of hydrogen fuel cell power generation and advanced strategies for photovoltaic systems (stand-alone: ground mounted and float photovoltaic systems) to enhance the power out during adverse environmental conditions (dust aerosol, partial shading conditions) and power generation forecasting using Artificial intelligence and Machine learning techniques.
Contact
Dr. Pachauri is an expert on Renewable Energy Technology and electrical hybrid power generation systems (Micro-grid advancements). His major research contribution is based on solar photovoltaic system performance enhancement and Transactive energy management for multi-energy carriers-based networked micro-grids. He is also associated with the Department of Energy, Environment & Climate Change, School of Environmental Resource and Development (SERD), Asian Institute of Technology, Bangkok, Thailand, for the project research collaboration in Transactive energy management and fair coast allocation between the multi-energy carriers networked Microgrids. In addition to this, he is an expert in hydrogen fuel cell power generation and advanced strategies for photovoltaic systems (stand-alone: ground mounted and float photovoltaic systems) to enhance the power out during adverse environmental conditions (dust aerosol, partial shading conditions) and power generation forecasting using Artificial intelligence and Machine learning techniques.
Teaching Philosophy