With a wealth of teaching and research experience spanning over 13+ years, Dr. Deepika brings a diverse academic background from reputable institutions to UPES. She held the esteemed position of Associate Professor at Chitkara University in India and fulfilled the role of Assistant Professor at NIT Hamirpur. Her expertise extends further to her contributions at UIET, Panjab University in Chandigarh. Dr. Deepika commenced her teaching career as a Lecturer at Baddi University of Emerging Sciences & Technology in Baddi and shared her knowledge as a Lecturer at NCCE in Israna, Panipat. Her extensive academic journey has greatly enriched her teaching and research capabilities.
Research Interests
Dr. Deepika Koundal
Dr. Deepika has a remarkable publication track record, with numerous research articles published in well-regarded SCI-indexed journals, showcasing a high impact factor. She has also achieved the distinction of being granted a patent and successfully completing a consultancy project. Furthermore, she has edited a total of seven books, published by reputable publishers such as Elsevier, Springer, IGI, and Wiley. Her editorial contributions extend to serving as an Associate Editor for prestigious publishers like IEEE, Elsevier and Taylor Francis, while also holding guest editor roles in esteemed publications like Computers & Electrical Engineering (Elsevier), Internet of Things (Elsevier), and IEEE Transaction of Industrial Informatics. Additionally, she actively participates in technical program committees and organizing committees and shares her knowledge through guest lectures and tutorials in faculty development programs, international conferences, and summer schools.
dkoundal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Artificial Intelligence| Biomedical Imaging and Signals| Computer Vision & Image Processing | Soft Computing | Machine Learning | Deep Learning | Cyber Physical Systems | Immersive Technologies
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Deepika's expertise lies in teaching a range of subjects including Artificial Intelligence, Image Processing, Digital Forensics, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning. Her knowledge and experience in these areas enable her to provide comprehensive instruction to students. Through her teaching, she aims to equip students with the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in these rapidly evolving fields. She stays updated with the latest advancements and research in these subjects, ensuring that her students receive relevant and up-to-date education. Her teaching approach emphasizes practical application, critical thinking, and problem-solving, preparing students for successful careers in these technology-driven disciplines.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Deepika has received several prestigious awards and recognition for her research and academic achievements. She was granted honorary membership from the Neutrosophic International Science Association at the University of New Mexico, USA in September 2016. She is also an IEEE Senior Member. She was awarded the Research Excellence award from UPES, India in February 2023 and April 2022, as well as selected as BRICS young scientist from NIAS-DST, India in September 2021. In addition, she received the Research Excellence Award from Chitkara University, India in April 2018. Furthermore, she was awarded the TEQIP-II Fellowship during her Ph.D. studies from 2012 to 2014 and received a scholarship from the KC Mahindra Trust from 1998 to 2001.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Deepika's teaching philosophy is “If students have the will to fly! I will be adding the wings.” She is centered around empowering students to reach their full potential. She aims to create a participative and positive environment in the classroom, where students are encouraged to express their ideas and actively engage in their education through case studies and real-life experiences. Dr. Deepika provides explanations, guidance, and fosters intellectual discussions on course materials. Her focus extends beyond technical skills, emphasizing the development of well-rounded individuals with aptitude, attitude, soft skills, co-curricular involvement, professional exposure, and strong ethical values.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Deepika Koundal has received recognition and honorary membership from Neutrosophic Science Association at University of Mexico, USA. She was selected as a young scientist in 6th BRICS Conclave in 2021. She received her Master's and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science & Engineering from the Panjab University, Chandigarh in 2015. She received the B. Tech. degree in Computer Science & Engineering from Kurkushetra University, India. She an awardee of the research excellence award given by UPES in 2023 and 2022 and by Chitkara University in 2019. She has published more than 100 research articles in reputed SCI and Scopus-indexed journals, conferences and three books. She served as a guest editor in Computers & Electrical Engineering, Internet of Things Journal and IEEE Transaction of Industrial Informatics. She is also serving as Associate Editor in IEEE Transactions in Artificial Intelligence, IEEE-RAL, Healthcare Analytics, Supply chain Management and International Journal of Computer Applications. She also has served on many technical program committees as well as organizing committees and invited to give guest lectures and tutorials in Faculty development programs, international conferences and summer schools.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy