Research Interests
Encouraging classroom discussion, a dialog rather than a monolog, case studies discussion and analysis, pre-class reading assignments followed by short quizzes. Data analysis and interpretation.
Home
Work Experience
Close
Professor Bhandari has about 37 years of industry experience with over 15 years of concurrent teaching at different training institutes. He was a member of the Indian Economic Service (1982-2014), Board Member of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (2014-2019), guest faculty at the Doon University (two semesters 2022) and Professor at Doon Business School, Dehradun (two semesters 2022-23).
He has also held the position of Whole Time Member (Economics) in the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority, India for five years (May 2014 to May 2019) where his job responsibilities included development and regulation of the contributory National Pension System (NPS).
Faculty
Development economics, corporate finance, Infrastructural development and financing through public-private partnerships, Asset pricing & risk management, Business environment, International business & finance, Regulatory economics.
To promote
Before joining the UPES, Dr Bhandari was at Doon Business School as Professor and Area Chair in Economics & General Management teaching managerial economics, business environment, micro & macroeconomics to the PG and UG students.
Extra-curricular Interests
and camaraderie among fellow students.
To improve self-esteem, feeling for friends, to know & understand each other better and make for lasting friendships.
Dr. Bhandari is an alumna of the University of Delhi, where he pursued his post-graduation (M Com) and doctorate (Ph D) in commerce and financial management respectively. He did his Masters of Business Administration (MBA) at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
There are several outdoor activities in which students are encouraged to participate in adventure sports like river-rafting, rock climbing, para-sailing, visits to national parks or trekking in the higher Himalayas to familiarize themselves with the surrounding environment with an objectives:
Professor of Practice
Profile Summary
Prior to joining PFRDA, Dr Bhandari was in the Indian Economic Service (IES: 1982) and has served in the Government of India in different capacities – Economic Adviser in the erstwhile Planning Commission, Economic Adviser in the Ministry of Agriculture, Director in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economics Affairs and Under Secretary in the Ministry of Health, and was involved with policy formation, appraisal, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of agricultural, industrial and infrastructural schemes/programmes/projects, and development and regulation of the financial sector.
Business Environment, Managerial Economics, Micro & Macroeconomics and Security Analysis and Portfolio Management, Infrastructure Development and Financing through Public Private Partnerships to under graduate and post graduate students.
School of Business
Attainment of physical fitness is an essential element of a student’s personality development. The courses at UPES, Dehradun seek to usher the students into the world of physical fitness with a view to ensure that it becomes an inseparable part of their daily routine for the rest of their life. “A healthy mind in a healthy body” is the (should be) guiding motto of UPES.
Dr Bhandari has written a few policy papers and has organized & participated in over two dozen conferences and seminars both within and outside the country on different topics in agricultural, industrial, infrastructure and financial sector development and reforms.
Contact
To foster a spirit of adventure and love for nature- flora and fauna.
esprit de corps
Dr. Badri Singh Bhandari
badris.bhandari@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy