Research Interests
Dr. Mohd Imran
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Before joining UPES, Dr. Imran was Assistant Professor, Marketing in School of Business, Woxsen University, Hyderabad. Earlier he has also worked in The ICFAI University, Dehradun, Institute of Advanced Management and Research, Ghaziabad and Shri Ram College, Muzaffarnagar  in the capacity of Assistant Professor/Lecturer.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Marketing Analytics I Digital Consumer Behaviour I Sustainable Marketing
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Dr. Imran’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. He has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class where they complete a short quiz. Quiz material is not repeated in class but instead is used as the foundation for in-class assignments that involve students working with real data and situations. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Dr. Imran received the Best Teacher Award from the IIOR Chandigarh and Global Thinkerz Society Chandigarh. He has also been confirmed as a Best Teacher two times by The ICFAI University, Dehradun. Additionally, He has also been felicitated by many other societies for innovative teaching practices time to time.
Profile Summary
Dr. Mohd Imran is a recognised marketing area professor with his core expertise in marketing analytics, digital consumer behaviour and sustainable marketing domains. He looks forward to sharing the value-added management education with management students and professionals.
School of Business
mohd.imran@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Imran teaches marketing management, advanced marketing management, international marketing, consumer behaviour, brand management, integrated marketing communications etc.
Dr. Imran has many research articles, case study, conference/seminar proceedings etc. on his account. He has also presented his scholarly work in several national and international conferences/seminars and case colloquiums etc.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy