Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Amritansh Bhanot
amritansh.bhanot@ddn.upes.ac.in
Basic Nitrogen (BaN) Is a Key Property of Antimalarial Chemical Space
Faculty
An effective teaching strategy encourages students to think and engage in discussions by prompting them to question, scrutinize, and apply their newfound knowledge instead of passively accepting it. Students should be given a dynamic stage to learn, apply, and delve into fundamental knowledge and skills.
Qualified national level entrance exam GPAT 2013 and GPAT 2014.
Scholarly Activities
Crystal structures of non-uracil ring fragments in complex with Mycobacterium tuberculosis uracil DNA glycosylase (MtUng) as a starting point for novel inhibitor design: A case study with the barbituric acid fragment
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
He is currently working in Rice Fortification Project implemented by Government of Uttarakhand funded by World Food Programme.
Before joining UPES in January 2024, he was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Pharmacy Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, Punjab, India. From April 2016 until August 2020, he also worked as an Assistant Professor in Himalayan Institute of Pharmacy.
Physicochemical profiling and comparison of research antiplasmodials and advanced stage antimalarials with oral drugs
Dr. Amritansh Bhanot pursued his doctoral degree from the Department of Pharmacy at BITS, Pilani. He has obtained his master's degree in Pharmaceutical Chemistry from Punjabi University, Patiala. He has qualified national level entrance exam GPAT 2013 and GPAT 2014. He has published articles in international peer-reviewed journals.
Discovery of small molecule inhibitors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ClpC1: SAR studies and antimycobacterial evaluation
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Assistant Professor
He specializes in Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Cheminformatics, Drug Discovery, Computer Aided Drug Design, Qualitative and Quantitative analysis, Method Optimization among other things. He is interested in working on drug discovery for Cancer, Malaria, Tuberculosis and other diseases.
Patents: Applied for patent “Quinazoline based compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof”. Application number 202311002668
Contact
Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutical analysis, Pharmacotherapeutics, Health Economics and Outcome Research.
Investigation on beneficial role of l-carnosine in neuroprotective mechanism of ischemic postconditioning in mice: possible role of histidine histamine pathway
Teaching Philosophy