Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar's teaching philosophy is to enlighten the students to emphasize their education and innovations on the real-world problems and societal impact. One of his most important functions is to help students become more socially conscious and impactful. He endeavours to make students active participants in their education as well as project-based learning system which can be converted into real life innovations. Furthermore, he associates software-based learning using Keil and Xilinx and other software in both theoretical and laboratory subjects.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Before joining UPES, Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar worked as Assistant Professor in the Senior grade level in the School of Engineering, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Chennai Campus from July 2021 to August 2023. He was also employed with Infosys Technologies Limited as Systems Engineer.
Awards and Grants
Close
Electrical
Faculty
manisankar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor- Senior Scale
VLSI Design | Memory Design (DRAM and SRAM) | Embedded Systems | IoT | Digital Electronics | Cadence Virtuoso | Synopsys HSPICE | PSPICE | FPGA | Xilinx
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar
Courses Taught
Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar is an experience and enthusiastic researcher who excels in the empowerment of young innovators and students to explore the new ideas for entrepreneurship and innovation. He graduated in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Anna University in 2009 and a master's degree from SRM University in 2014. He further pursued a doctoral degree from Kyungpook National University, South Korea and graduated in 2020. He is the recipient of the KINGS and BK21 Scholarships for doctoral studies from government of South Korea. He has authored over 6 articles in reputed journals and conferences and encourages students to publish new ideas in journals and patent them.
Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar teaches Embedded Systems, Microcontroller and Microprocessor, Digital Electronics and Systems, Analog IC Design, Sensors and Actuators, IoT.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar has authored over 6 articles in reputed journals and conferences. His articles have also been accepted into various reputed journals. His ideas have been converted into patents. He is associated with IEEE and various societies as a member.
Dr. Sivasundar Manisankar is the recipient of KINGS and BK21 Scholarships for doctoral studies from government of South Korea with grant of INR 2.6 million. He has received a grant of INR 1.7 million from KNU Bokhyeon and Basic Science Research Program funds from National Research Foundation of Korea. He received various travel grants from National Research Foundation of Korea for attending different conferences in South Korea and Other parts of the world.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy