Before joining UPES, Avni Joshi was at Avantika University, Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh holding an Assistant professor position taking care of Digital tools subject in the B. Design program foundation batch. She also worked for Apeejay Stya University, Sohna, Gurugram, Haryana, handling the entire Animation & Multimedia department under the School of Design and Visual Arts.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Adobe Creative Educator - Basic Principle of Design certification
Faculty
Avni Joshi holds a Master of Science in Multimedia and a Bachelor of Science in Animation and Filmmaking. Her experience is in 3D Animation Design, 3D Rigging, Game Design, and Higher Education. She has almost eight years of experience in the design process and disruptive innovation research, new design development, and teaching. She creates remarkable and enthralling animations. She creates her works using design software, hand-drawn techniques, and stop-motion animation, and has worked exclusively on film, television, advertising, video games, and online media projects. She is an expert at creating fluid, lifelike characters, environments, and things, and she uses narrative to convey complicated emotions and concepts. She creates compelling and memorable animations using their technological skills, design expertise, and storytelling understanding. As a professional and educator-mentor, she is an innovator in creating and training knowledge.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Animation | Exploration of 3D rigging in a more user-friendly way | Stan Lee – The person who evolved Marvel studios | Game designing.
Adobe Creative Educator – 3D Skills in the Classroom certification
Mentor Development Program – Online Learning Modules by BYST [ BHARATIYA YUVA SHAKTI TRUST]
Avni Joshi teaches 3D Animation design techniques and new design development. She creates her works using design software, hand-drawn techniques, and stop-motion animation, and has worked exclusively on film, television, advertising, video games, and online media projects. She is an expert at creating fluid, lifelike characters, environments, and things, and she uses narrative to convey complicated emotions and concepts.
Profile Summary
avni.joshi@ddn.upes.ac.in
School of Design
Assistant Professor
Avni Joshi
Adobe Creative Educator Level 1 – Creativity for all – Adobe Certified Trainer
Animation is a great way to tell stories and express oneself, and everyone can learn it. The teaching philosophy is to give learners the appropriate space to explore their passions and take risks while giving them the skills and information they need to thrive in the animation world. It is essential to foster each learner's distinctive personality and perspective toward design innovation and to assist learners in discovering their talents and interests while pushing them to explore new design frontiers by offering a variety of learning options and encouraging experimentation. Classrooms, both inside and outside, should include real-world experiences and industrial contacts to teach learners about the animation industry and provide them with the skills and information they need by collaborating with other professionals. As an animation professor, one of my goals is to motivate and encourage learners to challenge limitations, follow their passions, realize their potential, and innovate & create.
Autodesk Maya Certified Professional certification by NATIONAL SKILLS DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
Contact
Teaching Philosophy