, two hours each, Online Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on ‘Art and Science of Literature Review and References’ organized by Shri Jairambhai Patel Institute of Business Management and Computer Applications (SJPI) from 12-August-2021 to 14-August-2021
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Participated in
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Human Resource Management, Human Resource Development, Business Environment, Entrepreneurship, Organizational Behaviour, Labor Laws, Industrial Relations, and Training and Development.
Dr Kamlesh received the ‘Best Paper’ award at international conferences twice. Dr Kamlesh also received an award as Best Academic Intern by International Internship Volunteering Projects (IIVP), London.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
kamlesh.maurya@ddn.upes.ac.in
three-month webinar series
Employer Branding I Talent Management I Work-life Balance I Organizational Commitment I Psychological Contract I Employee Turnover
Dr Kamlesh Kumar Maurya
Before joining UPES, Dr Kamlesh was at the VBSPU State University UP India. He also worked as HR executive for three years in the industry. He was involved in the full life cycle of the staffing, induction training and joining formalities of the new joinees, employee engagement program, team building and recreational activities.
Associated as Intern with International Internship Volunteering Projects (IIVP), London from 19-Oct-20 to 18-Oct-21 (One year).
Profile Summary
According to Dr Kamlesh, teaching, particularly in the field of organizational behaviour and human resource management, is rooted in creating an inclusive, student-centered, and experiential learning environment. He believes in promoting critical thinking, ethical leadership, and a commitment to lifelong learning, to aspire and to equip students with the knowledge, skills, and values necessary to excel in their HR careers and make a positive impact in the organizations they serve.
Dr. Kamlesh specializes in the field of organizational behaviour and human resource management. He has impactful research work in employer branding, talent management, employee engagement, work-life balance, and leadership. Dr. Kamlesh Kumar Maurya has published more than seven research articles in international peer-reviewed journals indexed in ABDC, Web of Science and Scopus. He has presented invited lectures and research papers at international conferences and national conferences.
Assistant Professor-SS
School of Business
Contact
Currently associated with Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP), this program is designed to provide academic, personal, and professional development opportunity to faculty and academic staff to develop their academic practice and produce a body of relevant work, enhancing their career in higher education.
three days
‘Writing Impactful Articles’. The program is delivered by the Research and Publication Unit, Faculty of Management Studies, Sabaragamuwa University of Sri Lanka in collaboration with Emerald Publishing and College of Healthcare Management and Economics, Gulf Medical University, UAE.
Teaching Philosophy
Participated in the