Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Ms. Vaishali believes in developing the relational aspect of teaching. She makes every effort to get to know her students, providing personal attention and understanding their backgrounds and career aspirations. She believes that when students know that the teacher cares about their well-being, they will develop a certain level of trust. In the classroom, she strives to create an environment conducive to learning and growth by actively engaging the students. She believes that her enthusiasm will inspire and motivate the students.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Ms. Vaishali teaches Honors subjects in the Intellectual Property Laws Honors Program. Her specialization covers various areas of intellectual property, including copyright, trademark law, patent law, trade secrets, and related legal issues. She also addresses the international aspects of intellectual property protection and the challenges posed by emerging technologies and digital media.
Courses Taught
Dr. Vaishali Singh
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Vaishali Singh specializes in Intellectual Property Law with a passion for teaching and a deep understanding of Intellectual Property concepts and legal principles. Equipped with a strong academic background and research experience, she holds a PhD in Law of Patents from GNLU, Gandhinagar & a master’s degree in Intellectual Property Laws [LL.M.] from NLU, Jodhpur, India. She also holds a Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice [PGCAP]. She strives to educate and inspire students to navigate the complex and evolving field of Intellectual Property Law. As an Intellectual Property Law professor, she is enthusiastic about sharing her expertise, engaging in academic discourse, and shaping the next generation of legal professionals in this exciting and evolving field.
v.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Law of Patents | Trademark | Geographical Indications and Plant Varieties Protection and Farmers' Rights | Law and Biotechnology
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Contact
Ms. Vaishali is a dedicated contributor to the Practical Lawyer Magazine for a column on contemporary issues in IPR. She has also assisted one of the committee members in drafting the IP Policy for the Central University of Gujarat. She was part of the three-member team that established the DIPP IPR Chair under the SPRIHA Scheme, Government of India, in 2018.
She has successfully completed the research project titled "Adding Life to Centuries Dying Art: Comparative Market Analysis of Tangaliya and Kutch Work Shawl," funded by the Gujarat Council of Science and Technology. The findings of the study have been sent to DIPP, Ministry of Handloom and Textiles, Commissioner of Cottage Industry, Government of Gujarat, and Weavers Service Centres in the state of Gujarat.
Teaching Philosophy
Before joining UPES, Ms. Vaishali worked as a Research Associate at Gujarat National Law University, Gandhinagar, having over 1 year and 6 months of experience in research in the field of IPR at GNLU-Microsoft Chair on IPR Law and Policy Research. She was also a Teaching Assistant to Prof. (Dr.) I.P. Massey, Dean, National Law University, Jodhpur.