Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Close
Dr. Vinay Kumar Singh
vinay.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Vinay Kumar Singh, a learner-cum-teacher is an Assistant Professor in English Literature cluster. He has acquired Master’s degree in English Literature from Banaras Hindu University Varanasi, Post Graduate Certificate in the Teaching of English (PGCTE) and M.Phil in English (Linguistics and Phonetics) from The English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad (Lucknow campus) and Ph.D. in English from University of Lucknow.
Critical Thinking and Writing
Faculty
Indian Writing in English
Indian English literature
Learning How to Learn
Topic of Ph.D. (English) Thesis
Topic of M. Phil. Dissertation
Literary Criticism
Courses Taught
He strongly believes that teaching is a continuous process of learning, and the prerequisite of a good teacher is to be a good learner. Learning is his passion therefore, he opted for teaching as a profession. He is aware of the students' psychology and uses learner-centered approach in teaching. He prefers to use practical activities such as live projects, debate, discussion, roleplay, and presentation to promote critical thinking and analytical skills among his learners.
Mechanics of English
Eligibility Criteria
Since 2008, he has been in the profession of teaching and training. Before UPES, he was associated with ICFAI National College, Kanpur; Galgotias College of Engineering and Technology, Greater Noida; Shri Ramswaroop Memorial University, Lucknow and Dharmashastra National Law University, Jabalpur.
His research interests are Applied Linguistics, How to Teach Literature, Decolonization of Teaching English in India, English for Law, and Life Skills. He has twenty-five paper presentations in various national and international conferences and published fifteen research papers in international UGC care-listed journals, edited books, and conference proceedings.
Profile Summary
Literature of Injustice
Profession Communication
Assistant Professor
: A Linguistic Analysis of the Syntactic Errors in the use of verb phrase made by the students of class 10th at Gonda (U.P.)
Introduction to Linguistics
: A Comparative Study of Cultural, Communicative and Linguistic variations in the use of Englishes with special reference to Indian, American and British Englishes
Contact
Working with Data
Teaching Philosophy
Postcolonial Literature