Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Before joining UPES, Dr. Shubhangi was associated with MIT World Peace University, Pune holding the position of Assistant Professor and Co-ordinator for BBA Global E-business Batch.
Dr. Shubhangi has good publications where she has published one article listed in ABDC ‘B’ category Journal and the other listed in Web of Science. Besides this she has attended Conferences and has been a part of various research upskilling programmes related to Systematic literature review, Bibliometrics analysis using R-studio and Structured Equation Modelling (SEM). She is focused to publish insightful research articles and has good numbers of them communicated and under production.
Dr. Shubhangi is a P.hD in the area of Human Resource Management. Her thesis work titled ‘A study of Servant Leadership in Healthcare sector in India with special reference to Uttarakhand’ substantially focused on the notion of Servant Leadership that claims a leader should be selfless. She incorporated the idea of this leadership in healthcare context by analysing the influence of selfless leadership on the sustainability of healthcare sector equipped with Structured Equation Modelling as a research methodology. She further wishes to continue her research and bring meticulous insights into the domain.
Close
Dr. Shubhangi Sharma
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
During her tenure in MIT World Peace University, Dr. Shubhangi was teaching Human Resource Management (HRM) and Organisational Behaviour (OB) to MBA Batches. Besides this she was teaching one General Management subject that is Business Ethics and Corporate Governance in BBA.
Shubhangi.Sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Leadership I Servant Leadership I Sustainability I Perception I Learning I Healthcare context
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Dr. Shubhangi’s teaching philosophy is based on the idea of transformative education embarking on creating an environment for students to experience inclusivity and engagement through discussion based and knowledge sharing sessions. Further she believes in teaching through live and relatable examples for students to gauge the fundamentals easily. To improve students’ creativity and critical thinking she uses Case methods, Role plays, Business quizzes and games.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy