Professor Sinha is recognized as one of India's leading experts in the design, development, and utilization of synchrotron beamlines. The beamlines (National Facility), developed by him on Indian synchrotron sources Indus 1 and Indus 2, have been utilized by academia and industries for cutting-edge scientific research for more than a decade. Currently, Professor Sinha's research interests include electrode materials for sodium and lithium-ion batteries, hydrogen production, storage, and sensing, as well as materials synthesis and characterization. He has an impressive publication record, with more than 250 publications in refereed journals. At UPES, Professor Sinha has successfully set up coin cell fabrication and characterization facilities. Additionally, he also oversees the Central Instrumentation Centre (CIC) at UPES and manages operations and facilitates the creation of novel experimental setups.
Research Interests
anil.sinha@ddn.upes.ac.in
Professor Sinha has taught courses on Mathematical Physics II and III to B.Sc (Hon) students in recent semesters. In these courses, he introduces basic mathematical tools like basic Calculus and Basic Linear Algebra to solve real-life problems such as Fourier and Laplace Transforms, Fourier Analysis, etc. In the past, he has taught advanced courses on Numerical Analysis, Applications of synchrotron sources in industry, medicine, and materials sciences, and the Interaction of X-rays with matter.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Professor Sinha has received three group achievement awards from the Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India, for his significant contributions to the development and utilization of synchrotron beamlines. He has also won the best poster award at International Conferences and received National and Institute merit Scholarships for graduate (B.Sc.) and post-graduate (M.Sc.) studies, respectively.
Professor Sinha led a group of scientists at RRCAT (DAE), Indore, to design and develop three beamlines on Indian synchrotron sources Indus 1 and Indus 2. Academia and industries have extensively utilized these national beamlines, which serve as essential facilities for scientific research. At UPES, Professor Sinha established coin cell fabrication and characterization facilities through a university SEED grant. He also serves as the in-charge of the Central Instrumentation Centre (CIC) at UPES, overseeing its overall functioning and the development of new experimental facilities. Additionally, he is actively guiding four Ph.D. students.
Close
Anil Kumar Sinha
Faculty
Dr. Anil Kumar Sinha
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, Professor Sinha worked at the Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology (RRCAT), Indore, Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), as a Scientific Officer-H, heading a laboratory responsible for the design and development of several synchrotron beamlines. He also worked at the Advanced Centre for Electronic Systems (AECS), IIT Kanpur, as a Research Engineer, focusing on semiconductor devices.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Professor Sinha's teaching philosophy centres on the understanding that it is the teacher's responsibility to generate student interest in the course and foster overall learning. He incorporates two essential elements into his courses – 1) Providing reasonable details of the course prerequisites before starting the assigned course and 2) Relating the syllabus to real-life problems. By employing this, he creates an atmosphere that encourages learning in Mathematical Physics courses. He believes in a balanced teaching pace which helps in extracting the best from the students.
Contact
Professor Sinha's research interests revolve around the utilization of synchrotron sources for materials characterization, electrode materials for Secondary ion batteries, hydrogen production, storage, and sensing, as well as investigating the structural, electronic, magnetic, and electrochemical properties of materials.
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy