Research Interests
Teaching is a very stimulating experience, and I am passionate about it. I believe that teaching is but a process of mutual learning, especially in a research environment where we explore the limits of knowledge. Teaching requires one to state and explain concepts to the learner. This acts as a forcing function for the teacher to have these concepts clear in mind. Teaching requires appropriate abstractions of concepts to enable meaningful learning; the process of forming such abstractions helps the teacher a great deal in understanding those concepts well. And these abstractions ultimately help in better understanding of the body of knowledge and hence facilitate in expanding it through research.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Gopal Singh Rawat
School of Computer Science
Gopal Rawat completed his PhD from Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2022. He received his MTech (Computer Science and Technology) from Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2017. He completed MSc (Informatics) and B.Sc.( Electronics) from University of Delhi in 2012 and 2009. Dr Rawat with more than 5 years of research experience works in the field of Network Security, VANETs, Intelligent Transportation Systems and Blockchain Technology. He has authored research articles published in SCI/Scopus/ESCI/INSPEC indexed journals.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
VANETs I Network Security I ITS I Blockchain Technology I Philosophy
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Rawat is currently with UPES, since September 2022. Dr Rawat was with the Department of Computer Science, University of Delhi (2017-18) as an Assistant Professor.
Profile Summary
IT Application and Data Security | IT System and Physical Security | Cryptography and Network Security | Data Structures and File Processing
Dr Rawat cleared Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) conducted by National Testing Agency (UGC) in 
December 2017 and 2018. Further, he also cleared National Eligibility Test (NET) conducted by University Grant Commission and National Testing Agency in 2014 - 2017. He qualified Graduate Aptitude Test (GATE) conducted in 2015 and 2016.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Dr Rawat has mentored various B. Tech research projects, playing a pivotal role in motivating students to embark on research endeavours. He has guided several teams of young and aspiring minds from B.Tech CSE to complete their minor project titled “An E-Commerce Web Application using MERN Stack”. Additionally, he has mentored major projects titled “Cryptocurrency Market Analysis” and “Plant Disease Detection using Deep Learning”.
gopals.rawat@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy