Research Interests
Dr. Manisha Madhav teaching philosophy focusses on student-centric learning processes. she has a positive attitude, dedication and commitment towards her students. She believes in two-way teaching pattern i.e. interactive session with students on each topic. She persistently updates herself with the latest additions in the field of law and help students to gain both theoretical and practical knowledge.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Manisha Madhav has joined school of law, UPES in March 2024 and has a teaching experience which spans nearly 8 years approx. She keeps updating herself with the latest knowledge in her discipline and likes to interact with the students on contemporary issues and topics.  She is passionate about her work, sets realistic goals and displays professionalism in her undertakings. Her area of specialization is Intellectual property rights. Her research works are published in journals of repute at national and international levels.
Scholarly Activties
Close
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Dr. Manisha Madhav was working with some reputed organisations like JIMS School of law, affiliated to Indraprastha University, Delhi, Amity University, Gurugram. She has been part of different committees to ensure smooth functioning of both academics and administrative work.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
manisha.madhav@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Transfer of Property Law | IPR | Human Rights Laws | law of Contract
Profile Summary
Dr. Manisha Madhav has published papers specially in her area of interest i.e. IPR and few other law subjects like women and children in some of the reputed national and international journals.
Dr. Manisha Madhav
Dr. Manisha Madhav has been a scholarship holder throughout her BBALLB (hons.) 5 years program.
Contact
Dr. Manisha Madhav have undertaken few certificate courses on Protecting Business Innovations via Trademark, by Hong Kong University of Science and technology, Protecting Business Innovations via Copyright, by Hong Kong University of Science and technology and Children’s Human Rights- An interdisciplinary Introduction, by University De Geneve. she has published several research papers in journals of high repute and have also been part of various seminars at national and international levels.
Dr. Manisha Madhav has taught courses on Transfer of Property & Easement Acts, Principles of Contracts, Human rights law, Intellectual property law, socio-economic offences etc.
Teaching Philosophy