Artificial Intelligence
Research Interests
Assistant Professor-Senior Scale
As a proponent of artificial intelligence for the welfare of society, she recognises her role in imparting information for the development of ethical AI technology and products. She ensures that her mentees use best practices to solve real-world problems.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Ms. Sugandha Sharma is an open-source technology enthusiast who supports and promotes ‘technology for all’ and is actively engaged in activities that aim at empowering communities through technological tools. She holds B.E in IT from Government Engineering College (Gujarat), M.Tech in CSE., and holds an MBA in HR. A seasoned academician who believes in building ethical AI solutions for solving problems toward achieving SDGs.
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Worked as Project Manager for a project titled ‘Uttarakhand Integrated Statistical System’ under the domain of Management Information Systems in 2020. This project was allocated to UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (UCIE) by Centre for Public Policy and Good Governance (CPPGG), Government of Uttarakhand.
Awarded by MSME, Government of India, for developing the course ‘Artificial Intelligence for Entrepreneurs’ (2021).
Sugandha.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Ms. Sugandha is an advocate for Project-Based Learning and Teaching style. She ensures that her students have hands-on practice in her classrooms. She believes in "giving back to the community" and encourages her students to solve problems and discover solutions to real-world issues that face society and the nation. As a testimony to this, Ms. Sugandha has been organizing national and international-level hackathons at UPES that are industry aligned. She ensures that her pupils learn problem-solving skills, as well as analytical skills, and ethical programming talents.
Awarded as ‘Iconic Woman’ by Women Economic Forum at the 84th Global Edition held in New Delhi, in December 2022, for her contribution to AI.
Courses Taught
Before joining UPES, Sugandha Sharma served in the industry as well as the academia.
Eligibility Criteria
Applied Data Science
She is also serving as State Vice President of Uttarakhand Start-up Council, WICCI (Women Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry) (from 2022 till Present).
She has held the profile of web developer and technical content writer in Japan. She has 4 years of industry experience and 8 years of experience in academics.
Python Programming
Worked as Project Manager for a project titled ‘A Survey Mobile App for the Collection of Data for Consumption Price’ under the domain of Management Information Systems in 2020. This project was allocated to UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (UCIE) by Centre for Public Policy and Good Governance (CPPGG), Government of Uttarakhand.
Profile Summary
Cognitive Analytics
Recipient of Super Woman Award (International Women’s Day) by Rotary Club, Uttarakhand (2021)
Contact
Sugandha Sharma
Applied Statistics
Bioacoustics | Machine Learning | Python Programming | Applied Data Science
Sugandha Sharma, a member of the School of Computer Science and the Computer Society of India (UPES Student Chapter), has been actively organising hackathons at the national and international levels at UPES. She is the owner of publications, patents, and copyrights. She is a member of the Uttarakhand Startup Council-Women Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where she encourages future female STEM students to become job creators. She has given numerous technical presentations and guest lectures in organisations such as the Institution of Engineers, UPCL, and UJVN. She is also a guest faculty member at MSME.
Teaching Philosophy