Research Interests
Before joining UPES, Ms. Nautiyal worked as an assistant professor at the Siddhartha Institute of Pharmacy and SDBIT Dehradun.
Ms. Himani Nautiyal
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Ms. Himani Nautiyal has 7.5 years of experience in Pharmaceutical Sciences. She completed her M. Pharm. (Pharmacology) from Uttarakhand Technical University in 2013 and is pursuing a PhD at UPES.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Ms. Nautiyal’s teaching pedagogy helps her students comprehend complex information, and students can develop professional mental patterns in the field of Pharmacy. She is an expert at simplifying the learning of intricate problems for students. She has completed a faculty development program on Managing Online Courses and Co-creating MOOCs: 02", organized by the Teaching Learning Centre Ramanujan College, the University of Delhi, and sponsored by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya's National Mission on Educators and Instruction, which she is utilizing to teach students beneficial learning techniques. Her pedagogy is founded on discussions, assessments, and other activities that help students develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Ms. Nautiyal has had various research and review articles published in national and international journals. She has presented papers at conferences and received the award for best presenter and has participated actively in several faculty development programs and seminars. She has taken on the role of convenor for both national and international conferences. She has advised over 12 B. Pharm. students on various review and research topics for their final year project and six M. Pharm. students on their research projects.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Ms. Nautiyal qualified for the Graduate Pharmacy Aptitude Test (GPAT) in 2015. She was selected and participated in the PCI-sponsored "Continuing Education Programme (CEP) 2018". She was also Selected and Participated in a 21-Day Workshop on "Downstream Processing of Enzymes and Proteins" at the CSIR-IIP Campus in Mokahampur, Dehradun, which UCOST sponsored.
himani.nautiyal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Molecular Pharmacology, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Preclinical animal models for screening therapeutic potentials in herbal drugs.
Ms. Nautiyal teaches several courses in Pharmacy. She familiarized students with the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles of drugs. Additionally, she has also taught Human Anatomy and Physiology, Pharmacology and toxicology, Pharmaceutical Microbiology, and Biochemistry.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Teaching Philosophy