Research Interests
Ms. Aditi believes in building a research-oriented environment in the institution to transform it into a multi-dimensional research center. She foresees this to achieve by inculcating in students a critical thinking approach while pursuing their law courses. She firmly believes in creating an engaged-learning environment, facilitating in the enhancement of legal research and writing skills.
Home
Work Experience
Close
Ms. Aditi has dealt and taught varied subjects like Constitutional law, Administrative law, Hindu law, Muslim law, Public international law and Competition law.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, Ms. Aditi has worked as an Assistant Professor at Lloyd Law College, Greater Noida where she was a significant part of the Organizing Committee for National and International Conferences. She has also worked as an Assistant Professor for almost 3 years in School of Law, ITM University. During her tenure, she has worked as the faculty coordinator for Moot Court Committee, Student Welfare Committee and Library Management as well.
School of Law
Ms. Aditi has published ​research paper titled ‘Casting of Vote in India: Provisions and Problems’ in NIU International Journal of Human Rights approved under UGC-CARE and a paper titled ‘Reawakening of Sri Aurobindo’ Ideas on Nationalism and Pedagogy’ in Wesleyan Journal of Research approved under UGC-CARE.​ Apart from this, she has been a part of Faculty Development Programs on “Outcome-Oriented Teaching Learning Practices and Research: A Multi-Dimensional Approach” conducted by School of Law, Sharda University with SCC Online. She has also participated in an Online Workshop on “Law of Evidence: Challenges in Practice and Procedure” conducted by Damodaram Sanjivayya Legal Incubation Centre under Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University, Vishakhapatnam. In addition to this, she has also adjudged the Preliminary Rounds of the National Moot Court Competition (Virtual), 2023 organized by School of Law, NMIMS Hyderabad. She has also pursued Certificate courses in varied allied subjects of law.
Ms. Aditi Pateriya has been working as an academician for more than 3.5 years as an Assistant Professor of Law. Sha has qualified UGC-NET. She is currently pursuing her Ph.D. degree from RGNUL, Patiala in the field of Animal cruelty legislations in India. She has pursued her Post-graduation with Distinction from NUALS, Kochi with specialization in Constitutional law and Administrative law, holding third position in the University. She has completed B.A.L.L.B. (Hons.) from Institute of Law, Nirma University, Ahmedabad. Apart from this, she has published research papers in UGC-CARE listed journals and has pursued Certificate Courses in varied subjects.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Aditi Pateriya
aditi.pateriya@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Constitution, Human Rights, Animal law, international law.