Research Interests
Knowing who my audience is, what kind of knowledge and experience they have, and what they wish to accomplish is one of my responsibilities as a teacher. Through this approach, I tailor my curriculum to meet their needs while leaving space for discussion topics to unearth.
Food Industry Research Development Institute (FIRDI), Taiwan
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
The majority of his research is focused on phase transformation studies and materials characterization of high entropy alloys. He is presently the workshop in-charge of mechanical engineering department.
Close
Faculty
University of Macau, Macau
Mechanical
Research & Development Grant from University of Macau, Macau
Dr. Gurumayum Robert Kenedy
JYMI (Jing-Yuh Metal Industries, Taiwan)
Accenture People Developer Award
Scholarly Activities
Taiwan-Russia Joint Project
During his tenure with Accenture from 2007 to 2011 for 4.5 years and he worked with Wyeth, Avanade, and British Petroleum.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prior to joining UPES Dr. Gurumayum was with NTUST (Taiwan Tech) as a research scholar, Engineer at Accenture and an Intern at HMT, India. He worked on various projects for-
Introduction to Materials Science and Engineering, Manufacturing Processes and Additive Manufacturing.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Ministry of Science and Technology (Taiwan)
Assistant Professor
Dr. Gurumayum’s research interests are materials characterization of metallic materials and composite materials (Transmission Electron Microscopy, Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy, Cryogenic Tensile testing, Tensile testing, Electron Dispersive Spectroscopy, STEM-HADDF, X-ray Diffraction, Thermogravimetric Analysis, Magneto-Thermogravimetric Analysis, Metallography, Microhardness testing).
LEISON Technology, Taiwan
Dr. Gurumayum Robert Kenedy joined as Assistant on 21st August 2023 in the School of Advanced Engineering UPES Dehradun. He received his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from National Taiwan University of Science and Technology (Taiwan), his Master of Technology degree with distinction from National Institute of Technology (Agartala) and his Bachelor of Technology degree from Pondicherry University, Pondicherry.
NTUST Doctoral Programme Full Scholarship
Contact
gurumayum.kenedy@ddn.upes.ac.in
He has played chess at national level, and he drew a match with former World chess champion Grandmaster Vishwanathan Anand.
Teaching Philosophy