Company law
"Cyber Crimes against Women in India: How Can the Law and Technology Help the Victims?"
Dr. Sujata Bali is currently serving as a Senior Associate Professor at UPES School of Law in Dehradun, India. She has diverse teaching, research, and administrative experience. Her areas of specialization are Corporate Governance and Banking laws. She also has a keen research interest in women's and children's rights and environmental concerns.
Research Interests
E-banking & the law
Fundamentals of Moot Courts
Home
Work Experience
Environmental Law
Awards and Grants
https://doi.org/10.1201/9781003204862
Close
Sr. Associate Professor
Education I Legal Education I Higher Education I Corporate Governance I Law for the Marginalized
Right to Information
Insurance Law
Research Methods & Legal Writing
Labour Law
Dr. Sujata Bali's areas of formal specialization are Corporate Governance and Banking laws. She has developed a research interest in education, women's and children's rights, techno-legal, and environmental concerns. Some of her recent publications are:
"Life-skill courses in the Indian Legal Education Framework,"
Law on Commercial Transactions
Faculty
Understanding Energy Business and Investment Law
Alternative Dispute Resolution
Scholarly Activities
Legal Methods & Legal Reasoning
sbali@ddn.upes.ac.in
Legal Language & Legal Writing
"Anticipating Legal Issues associated with the Cyber Security and Privacy
Before joining UPES, she was a Senior Research Fellow (UGC) at the Department of Laws, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla, India, where she completed her Ph.D. (Law) thesis work on Banking Frauds in India: Emerging Trends and Legal Challenges in the 21st Century. Previously, she taught law at the Himachal Pradesh University Institute of Legal Studies in Shimla, India.
Dr. Sujata Bali's teaching style is inspired by Socratic methods. The answers to the questions are truly with the seeker only. She believes that every student matters but also that only a learner can learn. Therefore, a law teacher can inspire, guide, mentor, but never really teach law. Law is as natural to human beings as living in society. Therefore, the teaching of law is limited to familiarizing law students with observing the world around them and noting those aspects of human nature that create law as it is.
https://doi.org/10.52305/FUNM6586
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Law & justice in a globalized world
Banking & Negotiable Instruments law
Corporate Governance
Law of Torts and Consumer protection
Profile Summary
Law & Economics
Law of Contract
Laws on Securities & Financial Markets
Insolvency & Bankruptcy Law
Online Commercial Arbitration
"Interweaving Life Skills through NEP 2020,"
https://www.nluassam.ac.in/docs/pub/NEP2020.pdf
Contact
She received the UGC Senior Research Fellowship for her doctoral thesis. She received the award for Best Faculty - Excellence Award for individual teaching - by UPES in recognition of outstanding contribution to promoting excellence in education in 2019. She had a consultancy project with the National Law Institute University, Bhopal, India (2021), and was a contributor to the Expert report "Fuel Blending in India: Learnings and Way Forward" (2016).
Intellectual Property Law
Law on International Banking & Finance
Dr. Sujata Bali
Teaching Philosophy