Research Interests
Prof. Kovid is actively involved with editorial boards of some journals. He, as guest editor, has brought a special issue of FIIB Business Review (Q1-Scopus/ABDC/ABS1) on the entrepreneurship and innovation theme in 2022. He is Editor-in-Chief, Manthan Journal of Commerce and Management. He is reviewer of various reputed journals. He has been invited as an expert in Board of Studies and track chair/guest speakers in int’l conferences/workshops at institutions of repute including IIM Nagpur, BIMTECH, Bennet University, MBL Munjal University among others.
Prof. Raj K Kovid is a Professor in the Strategy & Entrepreneurship area at the UPES School of Business, UPES, Dehradun, India. He has published research articles in international journals of repute, indexed/ranked in Scopus/SSCI, ABDC, and ABS. He has a keen interest in the case method of teaching-learning and developed cases published by/available at Harvard portal, Emerald and Sage publications. In addition to paper presentations at int’l conferences of Strategic Management Society, ICSB, and other leading B-schools, he has also chaired technical sessions. He has been trained through FDPs on strategic management at leading Indian B-Schools – IIMB, IIMC, IIMK, MDI, XLRI and IIFT. He has been a guest editor for a special issue of FIIB Business Review (Q1-Scopus/ABDC/ABS1) on entrepreneurship and innovation theme in 2022. He had assumed administrative responsibilities like Dean (in-charge), Head of Department, Program Director, Chairperson - Research, Case Development Centre, and PhD Program. He has conducted training programs/consultancy for bankers and IT professionals in general management, strategic analysis and thinking. He has conducted faculty development programs on case method and research. He has been earlier associated with Jagdish Seth School of Management (JAGSoM, formerly IFIM), Bengaluru, NIIT University, and Gautam Buddha University.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Close
Prof. Raj Kovid has been working in academics since Aug 2000. He spent around four years of his early career in financial services industry before joining academics. He has earlier been associated with Jagdish Seth School of Management (JAGSoM, formerly IFIM) Bengaluru, NIIT University, Neemrana (Rajasthan), Gautam Buddha University, and Sharda University Greater Noida, and Prudential Capital Markets Ltd.
Strategic Management I Growth Strategies I Entrepreneurship I Technology Adoption
Faculty
Prof. Kovid received the research grant of Rs. 19 Lakh from Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) as co-principal investigator in 2023 on a research project related to management of crop insurance.
Scholarly Activities
Prof. Kovid’s area of teaching includes courses such as strategic management, entrepreneurship, family business management, mergers & acquisitions, platform strategy, corporate governance & ethics
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
raj.kovid@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Kovid’s teaching philosophy is based on the premise that a teacher’s job is to create some impact on the lives of learners – in and out of the classroom. He focuses on engaging students actively in the class discussions on case studies to maximise the learning. Other instruments for impactful learning used include industry-related project-based activities, presentations and active learning assignments. His teaching philosophy revolves around equipping students with contemporary skills and attitudes.
Profile Summary
Raj K Kovid
School of Business
Contact
Teaching Philosophy