Dr. Leena's expertise extends to teaching core courses in Chemical Engineering, including Process Dynamics Control, Mass Transfer Operations, and Chemical Reaction Engineering. She also specializes in elective courses such as Petroleum refining and petrochemical technologies, Chemical Process Safety, and Fundamentals of bioenergy.
Research Interests
Dr. Leena Kapoor
lkapoor@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Leena's teaching philosophy centres on the concept of learning as a collaborative endeavour. She views her role as a teacher in the light of leadership, aiming to guide, motivate, inspire, and set an exemplary standard. Dr. Leena places a strong emphasis on cultivating independent thinking, analytical reasoning, and problem-solving abilities in her students, encouraging them to learn and apply concepts in the practical realm of Chemical Engineering.
Close
Dr. Leena Kapoor holds a PhD degree in Chemical Engineering. She is a distinguished academician with a keen interest in biomass conversion technologies for producing green fuels. Dr. Leena's work involves biomass pyrolysis and the upgradation of biofuels. She joined UPES in August 2011 and has made significant contributions with research papers published in prestigious journals such as SCI, Scopus, and Web of Science with high impact factors of 5. Additionally, she has authored several book chapters with Springer.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, Dr. Leena worked at Jaypee Cement as an Engineer Trainee. She also served as a Guest Lecturer at MJP Rohilkhand University, Bareilly (UP).
Energy
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Leena's research revolves around biomass conversion technologies for producing green fuels. She has designed and developed a twin-screw biomass pyrolysis reactor in the laboratory and has conducted tests on various biomass samples to generate green fuels. As the biofuels produced from biomass require upgradation to improve their properties for direct utilization in combustion engines, she is currently focused on developing Nano composites catalysts using transition metals such as Ni, Co, Zn, and Fe, and on the upgradation of biofuels.
She has worked on several internal research projects, such as SEED, SODH, and Rise, collaborating with student teams. Additionally, she is involved in an external project sanctioned by UGC DAE CSR, focusing on the topic of Upgrading biofuels using nanocomposite catalysts.
Dr. Leena has received the Dedicated Service Award for her teaching contributions and has been awarded the Best Presenter Award for her research paper presentation at UPES, Dehradun.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy