Operating Systems
Research Interests
Dr. Ved has published more than 15 research papers in reputed journals and conferences. Further, he has 5 granted and 2 published patents in his account. He is serving as a reviewer for reputed journals and conferences. He has also served as session chair for many reputed conferences. He has guided more than 45 projects at the graduate and post-graduate level. Currently, he is guiding one Ph.D. scholar.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Ved has more than 8 years of teaching experience. Before joining UPES in 2016, he worked at Jaipur National University, Jaipur for one year and for six months at IMS Unison University, Dehradun.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Java Programming
Dr. Ved Prakash Bhardwaj is currently working as an Associate Professor in the School of Computer Science at UPES Dehradun. He received his Ph.D. (CSE) and M.Tech (CSE) from Jaypee University of Information Technology in 2014 and 2010 respectively. He received his B.E. (Computer Engineering) from Rajasthan University in 2008. Dr. Bhardwaj has published many papers in peer-reviewed Journals and Conferences of National and International repute with publishers like IEEE, ACM, Springer, Elsevier, etc.
Data Communications and Networking
Scholarly Activities
Ved Prakash Bhardwaj
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Mobile Application Development using Android
vpbharadwaj@ddn.upes.ac.in
C Programming
Profile Summary
Modelling and Simulations
Dr. Ved successfully completed ISRO sponsored (NNRMS) course on ‘Geocomputation and Visualisation in Web Platforms’ at IIRS, Dehradun in 2019. To improve online teaching and learning practices, he has completed the ‘Virtual Teacher Specialization’ certification course from Coursera. Moreover, he has also one edX certification of ‘SW47x: Entrepreneurship in Emerging Economies’ course in his account.
Contact
Interconnection Networks | Parallel and Distributed Computing
He works on the principle that every student has a lot of potential for learning, only the proper guidance and support are required for better understanding. Therefore, he takes care of each student in class while delivering the lecture. In general, he starts the lecture by giving insights into the previously delivered session, therefore, each one can feel connected with the current topic. He provides space and time to their students for their queries and takes real-life based examples and scenarios for clearing their doubts. The assessment of students is based on their learnings followed by assignments, quizzes, tests, and sometimes surprise tests.
Teaching Philosophy