Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Deepanmol Singh works with industry and academia to solve analytical problems, including HPLC method development, characterization of unknown materials, etc. Recently, he worked on a consultancy project for the Saifi Vet Med industry for the characterization of feed samples.
d.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Deepanmol has taught courses such as pharmaceutical analysis, Instrumental analysis methods, advanced instrumentation techniques, and biochemistry. He takes both theory and practical laboratory for these subjects.
Deepanmol Singh
Scholarly Activities
Deepanmol Singh is an expert in pharmaceutical analysis with over 8 years of experience. He has worked with different national organizations, including the National Antidoping Agency, the National Dope Testing Laboratory, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research. He has been working in electroanalytical chemistry, targeting the diagnosis of markers of thyroid disorders.
Deepanmol Singh believes that not all students need the same material to be taught in class. He believes in a personalized teaching approach where he understands the need of all students, classifies them, and then teaches them accordingly. He uses novel methodologies such as learning by evaluation, where students are not given any assignment to write; rather, the teacher writes an assignment, and students evaluate it. The other approach is project-based learning, where most concepts are taught as a part of a research project.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Deepanmol Singh was awarded S. L. Nasa award for excellence in teaching. He has been a rank holder in national pharmaceutical examinations GPAT AIR 46 and NIPER AIR 5 and received a scholarship from AICTE during his post-graduation. He is a life member of the Association of Pharmacy Teachers of India (APTI).
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Assistant Professor
He has also participated in the national and international conferences to present his research work. He has given guest lectures to pharmacy institutes in his area
He works on molecularly imprinted polymers and antibody-based biosensors for levothyroxine and liothyronine.
Contact
He graduated in Pharmacy from the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, Chandigarh, and post-graduation from the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) Mohali.
He has been interested in developing LC-MS, HPLC, and GC-MS methods for identifying, characterizing, or quantifying small molecules. He is also interested in developing point-of-care devices using molecularly imprinted polymers technique.
Before joining UPES, Deepanmol Singh worked cumulatively at LIMT College Noida and in the National Dope Testing laboratory for around four years. He has been an expert in developing methods using LC-MS/MS, HPLC, GC-MS, and electrochemical analyzer systems. He also provides training on the Karl Fisher auto titrator, UV spectrophotometer, and particle size analyzer.
Teaching Philosophy