Dr. Hina was the recepient of the University Merit Scholarship for securing 2nd Rank in her LLM entrance exam conducted by AMU Aligarh. Also, She was the third topper of her batch in BALLB(Hons.) 2006-11 at AMU Aligarh.
Dr. Hina Kausar
Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Hina Kausar holds her Ph.D. in Family Law from Aligarh Muslim University Aligarh. Her LLM was in Commercial Law. She has pursued her BA.LLB. (Hons.) from Aligarh Muslim University Aligarh, premier Central University in India. She has also qualified UGC NET exam in 2013. She is currently working as Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) at School of Law, UPES Dehradun.
Dr. Hina Kausar is the Reviewer of International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics (IJDCF) at IGI Global. Besides this, She is also the External Evaluator of Ph.D. thesis  for Kalinga University Raipur. She is also the External Question Paper Setter  for Delhi Pharmaceutical Science and Research University New Delhi and Reva University Bangalore.
Her teaching approach is focussed on creating a meaningful and impactful learning experience that prepares students for the complexities of the legal profession.  She believes that teaching should reflect a commitment to fostering critical thinking among law students,  inculcating practical skills, ethical practice, and lifelong learning within an inclusive and collaborative environment. She has been using multiple modes of evaluating her students performance on a regular basis through flipped classroom method, class presentation, use of digital research tools, case studies, Problem based learning etc.  By incorporating a variety of teaching methods and fostering an engaging and reflective learning environment, educators can better prepare students for the complexities of legal profession.
Faculty
hina.kausar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Hina is skilled in teaching courses, including Company Law, Consumer Protection Laws, International Trade Law, International Humanitarian Law, Hindu Law, IPR, Administrative Law, Gender Justice and Family Patriarchy, Private International Law, Socio-economic offences & White-Collar Crimes, Legal Research and Methodology at the under-graduate and post-graduate level through offline and online teaching modes.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Profile Summary
Her research interests revolves around Gender Justice, Sustainable Development, Family Law, IPR, Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Rights etc.
She possess diverse teaching and research experience of more than 7 years at various Central Government Universities such as Jamia Millia Islamia New Delhi and Aligarh Muslim Univeristy Murshidabad Centre West Bengal, and also at Private Universities in India, such as Reva University Bangalore, Presidency University Bangalore, GLA University Mathura.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy