Research Interests
Prof. Abadhan Sabyasachi is a Member of ACM, IEEE, working as an Assistant Professor in the School of Computer Science at UPES Dehradun and pursuing his Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from Hong Kong. He has completed a Master’s degree (M. Tech) from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati, India, and a Bachelor’s degree (B. Tech) from the Biju Patnaik University of Technology (BPUT), Rourkela, India. He worked as a Project Fellow at IIT Guwahati, Assistant Professor at NIT Nagaland, NIT Silchar, Manipal University, Jaipur, and SRM University, AP. His work on cloud computing and ML topics appears in top-tier conferences, including IEEE SMC, IEEE SRDS, IEEE ICIT, and IEEE HPCC. His broad research interests include Cloud Computing, Mobile Edge Computing, the Internet of Things, Performance Evaluation, and Machine Learning.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Prof. Abadhan Sabyasachi’s teaching philosophy focuses on Outcome-Oriented Learning, i.e., to improve the overall performance and academic excellence of students, the topic-wise learning assessments after completion of each topic are to be carried out throughout the academic term (semester) instead of only customary periodicity, providing them with the topic-wise lesson plan, hands-on class materials, and topic-specific case studies, and relevant sector benchmarks to assess the current developments. Privileging the students to ask questions any time they feel to dispel doubts, conducting periodic group discussions, seminars, and project demonstrations by providing them with the needful mentorship and guidance to improve their understanding and capabilities in effectively dealing with the subject matters. He participated in the Pedagogy Workshop on Effective Teaching and Learning Strategies at NIT Silchar and was the faculty-in-charge of Google Associate Cloud Engineer Specialisation at SRM University, AP. Moreover, with the help of a Virtual Learning Environment by using Learning Management Systems (LMS) such as Google Classroom, Moodle, Canvas, and Blackboard for real-time delivery of class materials, assignments, quizzes, and getting instant. Students would be encouraged to take up the online courses and specializations offered by the Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) platforms such as the NPTEL, MIT OCW, Coursera, and edX, which would help update their knowledge and remain familiar with emerging technologies and applications.
abadhan.sabyasachi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
Abadhan Sabyasachi
Scholarly Activities
Cloud Computing | Data Centre Networks | Mobile Edge Computing | Internet of Things | Machine Learning | Performance Evaluation.
Prof. Abadhan Sabyasachi aims to promote cutting-edge research in the department and develop research proposals availing external funding and organization/agency grants. Also, putting efforts into establishing state-of-the-art laboratories along the lines of updated technologies such as Cloud Computing, Data Analytics, Embedded Systems, and IoT is fulfilling the department's general computing needs and turning them into vibrant ones. He worked as a Junior Project Fellow in the Govt. Sponsored R&D project "Design, Development, and Verification of Network Intrusion Detection System" at IIT Guwahati. Further, to have tie-ups in research collaborations with national and international research groups/labs, reputed universities/institutes, and organizations, such as the IEEE, ACM, and SIAM, to promote cutting-edge research activities at the UPES Dehradun. He was the founding faculty sponsor of the ACM Student Chapter at NIT Silchar and the Faculty-in-Charge of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program at SRM University, AP. Remaining proactive in upkeeping the department to meet its Goals and Vision and achieving compatible higher growth along with improving the overall standing/reputation of the university matching the national and international rankings and indicators.
Prof. Abadhan Sabyasachi received Research Travel Grant award by the RGC, Govt. of Hong Kong in 2017, the Research Travel Grant award by Govt. of India at NIT Silchar for Conference in China in 2013, the Junior Project Fellowship for Govt. of India Sponsored Project at IIT Guwahati for 2009-10, and the Teaching Assistantship at the IIT Guwahati, India, for 2007 and 2008.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, Prof. Abadhan Sabyasachi worked as a Project Fellow at IIT Guwahati, Assistant Professor at NIT Nagaland, NIT Silchar, Manipal University, Jaipur, and as Lecturer at SRM-AP University.
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Prof. Abadhan Sabyasachi taught Cloud Deployment Models, Web Technologies and Web Services, Cloud Computing and Infrastructure Services, Cloud Security and Privacy, Algorithm Analysis and Design, Computer Networks with Internet Protocols, Introduction to Computing with JAVA, Mobile App Development with Android, Introduction to Computing with C, Data Structures, Switching Theory, Graph Theory, Principles of Programming Languages, and Formal Languages and Automata Theory.
Profile Summary
Contact
Teaching Philosophy