Research Interests
Prof. Kumar’s commitment to these principles manifests in his endeavor to instill in students a profound sense of empowerment. Through dynamic teaching strategies, he seeks to nurture their growth and facilitate the development of a holistic skill set. His unwavering objective is to cultivate an interactive learning milieu that sparks curiosity and nurtures professional advancement, thereby preparing students to thrive in the ever-evolving dynamics of the industry.
Dr. Anmol Kumar Goyal
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Before joining UPES, Prof. Anmol Kumar worked with Jet Airways, SAR Aviation and Airports like Mumbai and Mangaluru. Over a decade-plus of experience, he has held various positions like Aircraft Maintenance Engineer (Tech.), Duty and Assistant Duty Manager. He has also been engaged in obtaining DGCA licence for Mangaluru International Airport. Additionally, Prof. Anmol has handled Regulatory, Compliance and Safety of airports to maintain 24x7 seamless aircraft operations.
Faculty
Prof. Anmol has DGCA BAMEC Paper II Certificate and has been awarded Value Star for his work at the Mumbai Airport. Prof. Anmol has regularly undergone Annex 14 course – Airport Design and Operations, Safety Management System, Radio Telephony, Human Factors. He has been awarded certificates by Adani Mumbai and Mangaluru International Airport. In addition, he has also undertaken ICAO STP course on Airfield Lightening conducted by Industry Fellow from Israel.
anmolk.goyal@ddn.upes.ac.in
With a strong academic background, extensive industry exposure and teaching, Prof. Anmol Kumar brings a wealth of knowledge to educate and mentor students aspiring to work in the field of aviation.
Professor Anmol Kumar is an industry fellow with hands-on experience in aviation. His expertise has been in Airport Operation, Licensing and Aviation Safety. His entire work revolves around Airside Operations Management and Optimization, Regulation / Compliance, Airport Emergency Response Plan and Contingency Plans. Prof. Anmol has been engaged with some well-known airlines like Jet Airways and SAR Aviation, in addition to airports like Mumbai and Mangaluru International Airport. His profile amplifies the hard-core industry culture and best practices adopted across aviation.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Anmol Kumar teaches Airport Designing and Operations, Aviation Marketing and Planning. His overall aim is to impart maximum industry exposure to students and bring in best practices and standards needed for optimal use of resources by the industry.
Profile Summary
School of Business
Prof. Anmol Kumar’s teaching philosophy revolves around a student-centered approach, emphasizing practical application, collaboration, diversity, and continuous improvement as the cornerstones for establishing a robust educational foundation. By seamlessly integrating these guiding principles into his pedagogical framework, he aims to equip students with the essential knowledge, skills, and perspectives for excelling in the Aviation Industry.
Airport Operations, Safety, Airport Sustainability, Introduction of AI to Aviation Industry.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Assistant Professor - S.G