Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
School of Computer Science
Assistant Professor, (SS)
During the span of the last 10 years in academics, he has been teaching diverse subjects related to computer science engineering from core subjects to programming subjects and specialisation subjects.  Some of the courses, which he has taught in recent years are- Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Data Structures, Operating Systems, Introduction to IT Infrastructure and Landscape, Data Communication and Computer Networks, Advance Computer Architecture, Object-Oriented Programming, Real-Time Systems, Advanced Database and Management Systems, Principles of Programming Language, Managing the Cloud, Software Quality Management, etc.
Faculty
Amrendra Tripathi
an.tripathi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
His major research concentration has been in the areas of Signal Processing, BCI, Machine learning, Cloud Computing. His research has been published in reputed SCI/SCOPUS journals and conferences. He has guided more than 5 masters’ dissertations.
Eligibility Criteria
He has a total academic experience of more than 10 years. Before joining UPES, he worked at DIT University, Dehradun for 6 years as an Assistant Professor from 2011-2017.During the span of the last 10 years of his academic career, other than teaching he has served in various administrative roles like Placement Coordinator, Accreditation team member, Student chapters Coordinator, Spoken Tutorial Coordinator, Examination Team, and Project Committees. He has also organized academic events like UHackathon, International conferences like NGCT etc., several workshops and FDPs.
Profile Summary
I believe that learning is most effective when it is active and experiential. I incorporate a variety of teaching methods such as discussions, debates, group work, projects, and hands-on activities to engage students and promote deeper understanding. I encourage collaboration, independent thinking, and reflection to enhance their learning experience.
Contact
Amrendra Tripathi is pursuing his PhD in CSE and completed his M.Tech in CSE from Motilal Nehru National Institute Of Technology, Allahabad, India. His area of interest is Signal Processing, Image Processing, Cloud Computing and Machine Learning. He has published several research articles in high-impact factor SCI / SCOPUS journals and conferences. He has also published technical books in his field.
Teaching Philosophy