Research Interests
Dr. Atul Rawat
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Prior to UPES, he worked for the following:
Close
Worked as Analyst for Global Energy team in DMV Business and Market Research Pvt. Ltd.
Associate Professor
Faculty
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=wT8E-HoAAAAJ&hl=en
You can check his research profile at
He has been instrumental in driving the industry engagement for B-School and has delivered lectures in training sessions conducted for IOCL, HPCL, and Accenture and represented UPES in various industry for as a speaker.
Courses Taught
Prof. Basak received the Best Teacher award at School of Business, UPES. Further, he is a fellow of Anubhav Lecture Series South Asia and member of the MCX Product Advisory Committee - Energy Complex.
Eligibility Criteria
.
Worked as Assistant Manager for the oil and gas team at Ernst & Young. Worked closely with onshore team on client direct engagements, as well as executed projects requested by external and internal clients. Additionally, developed thought leadership reports on various issues impacting the energy industry to support the company’s business development initiatives.
Worked as Assistant Manager for the Industry Analytics team in Genpact India. As a core responsibility, conducted research and performed analysis on the energy and infrastructure industry, by identifying the different trends across the energy industry. Additionally, developed forecasting tools for demand estimation of energy equipment.
Dr Atul teaches the core courses on Petroleum Economics, M&A and asset allocation, Natural Gas Markets and Operations and Energy Management. He likes to investigate the role of energy in economic and sustainable development. In another stream of work, he likes to study emerging technologies and their implementation across industries.
Profile Summary
Dr. Atul Rawat has more than 16 years of experience in the energy research and consulting domain. He did Ph.D. in the field of energy management and is a Postgraduate in business administration from UPES Dehradun. He also holds a postgraduate degree in Mathematics from HNB Garhwal University, Dehradun.
School of Business
Worked as Senior Analyst for the oil and gas team at Deloitte. As a core responsibility, prepared strategic and financial reports for leading players of the energy industry, including all segments of the energy industry.
a.rawat@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr Atul’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create an industry-ready professional with adequate technical and leadership skill sets. He has incorporated some elements of “integrated role-play and case study” into his classes, in which students are exposed to real-time industry cases, suggested reading material, and other resources prior to coming to class. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Contact
Additionally, he has published research papers in reputed journals and conferences. His current areas of research are Energy Policy, Natural Gas, Sustainable Development, Energy Transition, and Climate Change.
Teaching Philosophy