Dr. Debjani Sarkar is faculty of communication and ethics at UPES Dehradun. She has completed PhD from IIT Dhanbad and since then has been teaching communication at technical and management universities. She is a prolific researcher, and her research has been published in renowned Web of Science and Scopus Q1 indexed journals. Her research has been cited by scholars and academicians across the globe. Her added responsibilities during her term of service include serving as Program Officer of National Service Scheme (NSS) at her previous workplace. She has served as faculty coordinator of literary clubs, member of gender sensitization committee and editor of department newsletter. She has also qualified national level examinations like NET and GATE. Her personal interests would include reading, writing and travel.
Research Interests
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Sarkar believes in inculcating humane values and developing interpersonal skills, employing creative and critical thinking together. These skills prepare students for workplace environment. Her methodology therefore prefers a blended mode of teaching- lecture, practical and tutorials based on group exercises. More often she makes use of flipped classrooms while engaging with students. For her, it is more of an interaction where the teaching-learning process is a mutual exercise of the students as well as the teacher. She visualizes the classroom as a conducive space where students can interact, talk and develop perception which will make them leaders in their choice of profession. Making the students adept in professional and business communication is the crux of her teaching philosophy.
Close
Business Communication
Dr. Debjani Sarkar
Professional Communication practice
Business communication, South Asian literature, Conflict literature, Marxist literary theory, Theories of collective violence
Faculty
2013 UGC sponsored Post Graduate Merit scholarship for University Rank Holder in Bachelor of Arts (B.A.), English.
debjani.sarkar@ddn.upes.ac.in
2018 UGC-NET (English)
Scholarly Activities
2017 Best Paper Award at the National conference on Postcolonialism-Indian Responses and Transformations, Amity University, Noida.
Life skills and effective communication
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
English
2021 GATE (English)
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Written analysis and communication
Profile Summary
School of Business
2014 M.A. English gold medal, St. Xavier’s College, Ranchi.
Contact
Dr. Sarkar has published research articles in the domain of South-Asian fiction. She has pioneered a filed of thought and discourses on South Asian conflict literature with reference to India. She serves as the reviewer of a Scopus Q1 indexed journal. Her work has been presented at national and international conferences for which she has bagged awards. She has organised national conferences, FDPs and invited guest lectures during her working tenure.
Before joining UPES, Dr Sarkar served as Assistant Professor at Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, Noida and visiting professor at FORE School of Management, New Delhi.
Business Ethics and CSR
2011 Samirendra Nath Chatterjee Memorial Burse Award for securing first position in B.A. Hons., St. Xavier’s college, Ranchi.
Teaching Philosophy