Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
https://snehadharafoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/Final-Aadhaar-CIP-Processdocument.pdf
Close
Prof. Rohit have published research papers and articles in renowned journals, focusing on socio-economic right and fundamental rights of minority and disadvantageous groups, disability rights and mental health. His work puts emphasis on the need for inclusive policies, the right to accessible education and the empowerment of individuals of marginalised sections. He has also presented his research findings at conferences and participated in interdisciplinary collaborations to foster knowledge exchange and create a positive impact in the field. He has also contributed to a blog series called the Right Approach focused on field of education of marginalised communities and person with disabilities.
Prof. Rohit’s teaching philosophy revolves around creating a dialogue centric classroom focused on students need, supportive, and inclusive learning environment promoting active engagement in and after classroom. He focuses on the critical thinking skills, empathy, and motivation needed to thrive in their academic and professional pursuits. He believes that learning is not merely limited within the classroom and a teacher has an utmost responsibility to facilitate the growth of a student by equipping the students with adequate tools which would not only help the students during their stay in the university but in life.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
The area of affirmative action, right to equality of all, rights of persons with disabilities and the exploration of legal frameworks that promote inclusion and well-being in the society.
Rohit.Ranjan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Rohit teaches the Jurisprudence, Family Law, Law of Crimes. He attempts to explore the intersection of law and society. The origin of law and its impact and vice-versa.
Courses Taught
Before joining UPES, Rohit Ranjan has gained valuable experience through his work in mental health and policy at the Snehadhara Foundation in Bengaluru. He actively engaged in initiatives aimed at empowering persons with disabilities, ensuring their rights are protected and advocating for their inclusion in society. This experience has provided him with a deep understanding of the challenges faced by individuals with disabilities and the importance of policy interventions to enhance their quality of life. Recognizing the potential to make a broader impact through academia, he transitioned to the field of education. He has worked in Amity University and Alliance University. He has a total experience of 7.5 Years inclusive of Industry and Academia.
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
He also successfully completed 2 projects Project for making disability certificate for persons with disability titled “Process documentation of Disability Certificate” can be accessed on
and Project for making Aadhar card for persons with disability titled “Process documentation of Aadhaar enrolment project” can be accessed on
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Contact
Prof. Rohit is a gold medallist in his under graduation wherein he was awarded Sitaram Modi Memorial medal instituted by Mr. R. N. Jhunjhunwala, Solicitor, Advocate, Notary & Senior Partner, Khaitan & Co., Advocates for scoring First Rank in Law of Contracts.
Rohit Ranjan specializes in Corporate Laws and Access to Justice. With a keen interest in the intersection of law and society, his research area focuses on Right to Equality and Socio-Legal Rights. His educational background, under graduation from National Law University, Ranchi and LLM from Tata Institute of Social Sciences Mumbai, has equipped him with a strong foundation in legal principles and theoretical frameworks, enabling him to delve deep into the complex dynamics of corporate law and access to justice. Through his teaching, He instil a deep understanding of disability rights, equality, social justice, and the importance of inclusive legal frameworks.
Teaching Philosophy
Rohit Ranjan
https://snehadharafoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/ProcessDocumentation_Disability-Certificate.pdf