Research Interests
He has taught several subjects in the field of Power & Energy Management, Infrastructure, Logistics, & Fuel, etc., including New & Alternative Energy.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Prof. Anil has led multidisciplinary teams on an international and national collaborative project to better understand the regulatory, financial, and technical behaviour of global and Indian Energy markets. He regularly delivers training and development sessions to various big Energy-related organizations. His work has a strong approach to innovation.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Anil Kumar is in the field of ‘Energy and Infrastructure Engineering and Management’. He is an expert in Energy Regulation, Financing, Energy Market, Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development. He has acquired more than two dozen qualifications in multiple fields of Engineering and Management, starting with B.Sc. Engineering in Electrical from Ranchi University in 1980. He has done Master of Technology in Energy & Environment Management from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi. He has also done MBA in Financial Management, M.A. in Economics, MBA in Operation Management, and M.Com (Finance), Along with this he acquired PG Diplomas in HRM, Personal Management, Marketing Management, Transport Economics, Insurance Management, Urban Planning & Development and International Business. His Ph.D. is in the field of Power Economics. He is a Certified Energy Auditor and Manager from the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. He acquired Diploma and certifications in Power Distribution, Project Management, Intellectual Property Rights, Safety & Security, and Cyber Laws. He is a Member of many Professional Institutions including the Institution of Engineers, Indian Institute of Metals, Indian Institute of Industrial Engineering, Loss Prevention Association, Operation Research Society of India, Solar Energy Society of India and SEEM.
Profile Summary
anilkumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Anil teaching focus at university is to promote learning by engaging students in their learning environment, promoting higher-order thinking skills and respecting their opinions and backgrounds. He helps students in preparing them as per the latest trends and market needs.
Prof. Anil received the General Excellence Teaching Award, Best Teacher at UPES. He worked with Organizations like NITI Aayog, UJVNL and UPCL.
School of Business
He has more than 35 years of experience in diversified fields of Power, Infrastructure, Energy, Environment, Training and Academics. He has guided more than 500 students on various projects and industrial/techno-commercial reports in the field of Engineering and Management. He has earlier written two books, one of them in two volumes in the field of ‘Power Sector Structure, Technology, Functioning and Regulation. He has organized, participated and delivered lectures in more than a hundred training programs, seminars, workshops, and conferences in the field of Power & Energy Management, Infrastructure, Logistics, Steel & Fuel, etc. Further, he is associated with many projects, consultancies, and training programs at different phases of his career in various forms.
Anil Kumar
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
He published more than Seventy Research papers including 40 in Scopus Indexed journal and approx. ten more in other UGC-recognized journals, including a few jointly, with scholars in the field of Energy & Infrastructure. He has guided eight researchers for PhD and eight are currently doing research under him.