pchoudhary@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Ms. Priyanka Choudhary is a UGC (NET) Qualified Assistant Professor - Selection Grade at UPES School of Law, with a constant research and teaching focus on Corporate Law. Ms. Choudhary pursued her B.A., LL.B. (Hons.) Five Years Integrated Course with a specialization in Business and Intellectual Property Law from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab, Patiala, and her Masters in Corporate and Intellectual Property Laws from the Indian Law Institute, New Delhi. She is currently pursuing her Ph.D. in Competition Law. She has also enhanced her academic expertise through the presentation and publication of various research papers on Company Law, Competition Law, Intellectual Property Law, Banking Laws, and Artificial Intelligence.
Home
Work Experience
She has been teaching since 2015 and has been associated with UPES School of Law since 2016. Before joining UPES, Ms. Choudhary also worked as an Assistant Professor at Mody University, Sikar, Rajasthan, for one year.
Close
I believe that a teacher should always be a learner first. Teaching is a profession where one has to keep on learning about all the developments taking place across the world to ensure that updated and latest knowledge is delivered to the students. Research is a tool for building knowledge and facilitating learning. Therefore, in my opinion, to serve best as an academician, timely enhancement of knowledge through research and acclimatization of new techniques is a must.
Faculty
Priyanka Choudhary
In addition to this, she is also keen to explore new areas, and recently she has authored a book on Artificial Intelligence in which she has tried to highlight all the issues related to the regulation of activities of Artificial Intelligence. She has also written a book on Healthcare Litigation, focusing on the issues related to the right to health and healthcare litigation around the world. She has attended a four-week Online Induction Training/Orientation Program for Faculty in Universities/Colleges/Institutes of Higher Education sponsored by the Ministry of Human Resource Development Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching, a SWAYAM ARPIT course in Law organized by NALSAR University of Law, and a Training Programme on Advanced Issues in Competition Law & Economics organized by NLSIU Bangalore under the "Capacity Building Initiative in Competition Area under Trade and Development Programme" sponsored by the Delegation of the European Union to India.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Profile Summary
As she opines that research is a tool for building knowledge and facilitating learning, she keeps participating in various refresher courses, faculty development and training programs, as well as conferences, to engage in research activities. Recently, she has written a critique on Public Policy and Prospects of Pharmaceutical MSMEs: A Study with Special Reference to Dehradun, Uttarakhand, published in the Bihar Journal of Public Administration, which is a UGC CARE Listed Journal. She has also written papers including Judicial Review and Fundamental Rights: Key Features of Constitutionalism published in the Indian Bar Review, and Shielding India's Status as 'Pharmacy' to the Developing World V/S Strong IP Protection: Analysis of TRIPS Flexibilities in Present Times of FTA's published in the book IP FOR DEVELOPMENT: THE EMERGING PARADIGM.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Company Law, Capital Market, Corporate Restructuring, Insolvency and Bankruptcy, Competition Law, Artificial Intelligence
Company Law, Drafting Pleading and Conveyancing, Legal Methods and Legal Writing, Information Technology Law, IP Valuation & IP Management.
Teaching Philosophy