Films I Cinema I Sound I Sound Designing I Gender I Virtual Reality I Augmented reality I
Research Interests
Prof. Shukla teaches ideation, script writing, production, audiovisual content creation, sound recording and designing. She trained the students to create audiovisual content, podcasts and short YouTube videos. She also guides the students to create films on smartphone technologies.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Prof. Shukla strongly believes that it is a teacher’s responsibility to create a supporting and comfortable environment that encourages student learning. Generally, she uses new technologies and blend them with the traditional way of teaching to innovate new teaching methods to help the students to learn more. During the practice-based classes, she works as a teammate with the students and guides them to generate good content. She tries to develop critical thinking to judge complex issues and formulate individual opinions through live examples and hands-on exercises.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
seema.shukla@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor (SS)
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Seema Shukla
Dr . Seema Shukla
Prof. Shukla’s directorial documentary and sound-designed films received several national and international recognition at Barcelona, Berlin, and Roma Film Festivals. Recently her directorial documentary ’Santitaion’ received Best Critique award at International Documentary Film Festival in 2022. Dr. Shukla’s directed short film ‘Samlangita’ got selected for International Samskrita Short Film Festival in 2023.
Profile Summary
Professor Seema Shukla is an award-winning, sound designer, media content creator, and researcher. She has done her studies at Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute Kolkata, a premier institute of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and Punjabi University.
Contact
Prof. Seema has directed several documentaries and short films that got recognition on national and international film festivals. Her work has a strong approach to creating innovative ways of training where impact is a key factor: for instance, training novice and amateur individuals to become media professionals and media entrepreneurs. She also writes scholarly articles for media academicians. She has presented papers in 35 National and international seminars/ conferences and won the best research paper awards at several international media conferences. She has several publications in Scopus, ABDC, Springer Nature and UGC Care listed journals.
Teaching Philosophy
Before joining academics, Professor Shukla worked in Bollywood and Tollywood industry as a sound designer, ADR engineer, scriptwriter, and editor. She also worked on several international projects. Some of her Bollywood projects are ADA, Dabang, All the Best, and My Name is Khan, etc. Her directorial documentary and sound-designed films received several national and international recognition at Barcelona, Berlin, and Roma Film Festivals. Recently her directorial documentary ’Santitaion’ received Best Critique award in International Documentary Film Festival in 2022. Dr. Shukla’s directed short film ‘Samlangita’ got selected for International Samskrita Short Film Festival in 2023.