Research Interests
Before joining UPES, Dr. Jitendra worked as an Assistant Professor at ITM University, Gwalior, from September 2010 to June 2014. He has held various leadership positions at ITM University, including Academic Coordinator, Diploma Program Director, Head of the Mechanical Department, and Associate Head of the Mechanical Department. He previously worked for AIT Ujjain as the Department Head of Mechanical Engineering and as an Associate Professor. From January 2001 to March 2010, he worked as an Assistant Professor at JIT Borawan.
In 2016, he participated in a one-week Faculty Development Program (FDP) conducted by NITTTR Bhopal at UPES Dehradun. Furthermore, he actively serves as a reviewer for peer-reviewed research journals. With a rich engagement in academic enhancement, he has both attended and orchestrated over 10 faculty development programs. Notably, he secured an incubation grant for prototype development as part of the inaugural incubation cohort, Runway at UPES, in 2021. His efforts have been dedicated to bridging the gap between the industrial sector and academia, exemplified by his pivotal role in establishing Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with various industries.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Sr. Associate Professor
jyadav@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Mechanical
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
His research focuses on the exciting subjects of control, modelling & simulation, biofuels, and tribology. By fusing these fields, he hopes to better our understanding of complex systems, accelerate the creation of sustainable and effective solutions, and increase energy efficiency. He studies the system's friction dynamics in the area of tribology. He is also responsible for creating a new friction model using a sigmoid function. He seeks to correlate the performance of CI engines running on biofuels with the engine's vibration pattern.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
He was awarded the Institute of Engineers' 2016 Second Railway Board Prize for one of his papers. He has also received a grant of INR 150,000 for a project titled "Dynamic Analysis of loosening of mechanical bolts under various loading conditions and vibrations," funded by UPES in the year 2020.
Dr. Jitendra completed his BE in Mechanical Engineering from Shri Govindram Seksaria Institute of Technology and Science in Indore in 2000. He has done ME in Tribology and Maintenance from the same institute in 2008, and his PhD from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal in 2016. He was awarded the Institute of Engineers' 2016 Second Railway Board Prize for one of his papers. He is a lifetime member of the prestigious ISTE Chapter and TSI Chapter. His research interests include tribology, biofuels, modelling, simulation, and control, among other things.
Dr. Jitendra taught a wide range of UG and PG disciplines. His area of expertise in the classroom is mechanical design. He has instructed students in a wide range of subjects, including fluid mechanics, vehicle dynamics, engineering graphics, mechanical vibration, noise, vibration, and harshness, machine design, etc.
Contact
Dr. Jitendra embraces a student-centred approach to education, prioritizing the students. His guiding principle revolves around delving into the depths of students' minds to instil their visions, missions, and life goals. He is a strong proponent of nurturing the holistic development of each learner. His pioneering educational strategies encompass novel concepts such as project-based learning, enabling student projects to evolve into patents and publications, and fostering innovation alongside education. He believes that every student harbour distinct aptitude and talent, making each classroom a tapestry of uniqueness. He places immense importance on acknowledging and cherishing individual needs, interests, and skills, ensuring that every student feels valued and empowered.
Dr. Jitendra Yadav
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Jitendra has published more than 30 research articles in peer-reviewed journals and conference proceedings. He has also filed for 3 Indian Patents and has been granted more than 10 design registrations by the Government of India. Currently, he is guiding 4 Ph.D. students in their research projects. He served as the co-convener for Doctoral Colloquium DC 2019 at UPES. He was the session chair for the International Conference on Intelligent Communication, Control, and Devices, at UPES Dehradun. He has completed 5 Coursera module courses on virtual teaching, in 2020 at UPES.