Research Interests
Shatakshi uses a blended approach of teaching and learning. She incorporates both deductive and inductive methods during sessions. She consistently applies innovative pedagogical tools to doctrinal as well as application-based education. She believes that teaching in the age of generative AI opens opportunities for immersive learning to empower the next frontier of lawyers and professionals.
Shatakshi received gold medals for outstanding academic and co-curricular achievements when she was reading law at Institute of Law, Nirma University Ahmedabad and LL.M in Business Laws at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bangalore. Her research work has been awarded at national and international level by the Competition Commission of India (CCI), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and academic institutions. Furthermore, she has excelled at public speaking in parliamentary debates and elocution competitions.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Before joining UPES, Shatakshi was at the University of Rajasthan, holding a visiting position at University Five Year Law College. She has worked in corporate laws as an advocate at the High Court of Judicature at Rajasthan. At School of Law, she is steering the Technolawgy Society as the Faculty Convenor. She is also representing School of Law as a part of the ‘MetaSquad’ at the University’s Metaverse Project. She has also worked as the Honours Lead for the Corporate Law Honours Cluster.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
shatakshi.johri@ddn.upes.ac.in
Shatakshi Johri
Courses Taught
Business Laws I Artificial Intelligence I Information Technology Laws I Competition Law I Fintech laws I International Law
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Shatakshi is actively involved in knowledge creation through organizing academic events like workshops and training programmes on technology law, business laws on emerging themes like blockchain, smart contracts, facial recognition technology etc.  She was the organizing secretary for one day National Training Programme on Mental Health Law in India. Her legal writing involves emerging issues surrounding artificial intelligence, business laws, comparative Constitution, and global justice. As mentioned above, she has also authored a book on Indian Constitutional Law.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Contact
Shatakshi teaches business laws as well as information technology laws. She has delivered courses on Company Law, Corporate Governance, Fintech laws and E Commerce, Information Technology Law for graduating as well as LL.M students. Her prime focus is for the students to decode basic concepts in these subjects and then develop an analytical understanding of the legal framework. Her assignments are mostly problem-based and behove the student to keep an open mind while developing their individual solutions.
Teaching Philosophy
Shatakshi is an assistant professor of law. She holds a Bachelor’s dual degree in arts and law, B.A. LL.B (Business Law Honours) from Institute of Law, Nirma University, Ahmedabad. She has specialized in Business Laws from the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bangalore. She is pursuing doctoral studies from the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (WBNUJS), Kolkata. She holds academic and co-curricular achievements in legal research and writing in areas of competition law, emerging areas of technology law, intellectual property, international law and constitutional law. She has authored a book titled “Lectures on Constitutional Law” published with Central Law Publications. Her academic work cuts across emerging areas like artificial intelligence, business laws and international law.