Research Interests
Mr. Kumar’s research works ‘impacts of COVID-19 pandemic outbreak on operations of cold supply chain management’, and ‘A Sustainable Framework Development and Assessment for Enhancing the Environmental Performance of Cold Supply Chain’ have been selected for Outstanding Research Award by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar NIT Jalandhar. Received best paper award for his research article “Analyzing the thermal, economic, and environmental dynamics of phase change materials used in cold chain applications” at 7th International Conference on Production and Industrial Engineering (CPIE-2023). He received MHRD, Govt. of India Research fellowships for his master and PhD Programs from July 2017 – 29 February 2024.
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale), School of Business, UPES Dehradun. 01 March 2024 - PRESENT.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Neeraj Kumar
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
His area of interest includes Supply Chain Performance System, Operations Management, Sustainable Supply Chain Management, Cold Supply Chain Management, Supply Chain 4.0, Multi Criteria Decision Making.
School of Business
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Teaching Assistant (at JRF and SRF level) at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar NIT Jalandhar. From 15 July 2019 – 29 February 2024.
Mr. Neeraj Kumar teaches a wide range of subjects such as Operations Management, Operations Research, Materials Management, Supply Chain Management, Production Planning and Control, Statistics at PG/UG Level.
Contact
Mr. Neeraj Kumar is currently working as an Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) in School of Business, UPES Dehradun. He specializes in Operations and Supply Chain Management, fostering a dynamic learning environment. Submitted his Ph.D. thesis in Operations and Supply Chain Management at Dr B R Ambedkar NIT Jalandhar. He brings expertise in quantitative analysis and data-driven decision-making, supported by an MTech from Industrial and Production Engineering Department, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar NIT Jalandhar, and B. Tech in Mechanical Engineering from Galgotias College of Engineering and Technology, Greater Noida. Mr. Neeraj Kumar has achieved notable success in the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) in Mechanical Engineering and Production and Industrial Engineering qualifying four times (consecutively from 2014 to 2016 and 2019) and secured 449 AIR in 2019. His research work addresses the issues of traceability, sustainability, and technological integration in cold supply chain performance system.
Mr. Neeraj Kumar’s teaching philosophy centres on fostering holistic learning experiences that empower students to become critical thinkers, effective communicators, and ethical decision-makers. By integrating real-world examples and interactive methodologies, he aims to develop a dynamic classroom environment that promotes curiosity and engagement of each student in the class. Ultimately, his teaching philosophy aims to contribute to the society and industries at the national and international level through excellence of his Engineering and Managerial expertise.
neeraj.kumar1@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
With a strong research background in Operations and Supply Chain Management, performance optimization, sustainability, and data-driven decision-making, Mr. Neeraj Kumar has TWELVE research papers in his academic credit in which NINE are published in well reputed international journals and THREE in high-impact books. Apart from that Mr. Neeraj Kumar served as reviewer for various academic journals like Sustainable Production and Consumption, Cogent Business & Management, PLOS ONE journal etc., contributing to the peer-review process and shaping the direction of research in the field.