Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Dr. Hitesh Kumar did his Ph.D. in Computer Science & Engineering. He has published 05 Authored Books, 35 Patents, 100+ Research Papers in SCI/ESCI/Scopus/WoS indexed journals and conferences. Currently, he is working in the area of Artificial Intelligence, Image Processing, Deep Learning, Machine Learning, and Blockchain. He has delivered many keynotes at various conferences and FDPs. He is also the editorial board member of many journals.
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Hitesh received the Young Scientist Award from the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand in 2021. He received the Best Teacher Award in 2017. He has also received best paper awards at multiple national/international conferences.
Faculty
Machine Learning | Deep Learning | Cloud Computing Resource Management | Software Engineering | Data Mining.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Hitesh Kumar Sharma
Before joining UPES at 2012, Dr. Hitesh was at ITM University, Gurugram as an Assistant Professor in School of Computer Science. He was associated with Dean Office, and he was working as Assistant Dean in Dean Academics office. He was also associated with IBM as an IBM Course in-charge in his previous organization.
Courses Taught
hksharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Hitesh Kumar Sharma has published 5 authored books, 35 patents, 100+ research papers in SCI/ESCI/Scopus/WoS indexed journals and conferences. He is also certified in many IT Specializations like Docker, Kubernetes, Neo4J, Maven, etc. Currently, he is working in the area of Artificial Intelligence, Image Processing, Deep Learning, Machine Learning and Blockchain. He has delivered many keynotes at various conferences and FDPs. He is a certified digital content creator and created some digital courses for online platforms. He is also the editorial board member of many journals. He has received Young Scientist Award, Research Excellence Award, Best Teacher Award in his academic career. He is GitHub Campus Ambassador and works as a Lead Administrator for UPES-GitHub Collaboration.
Dr. Hitesh taught various computer science and engineering course in his academic career. In computer science and engineering, students are exposed to a diverse range of courses that cover fundamental concepts, practical skills, and advanced topics relevant to the field of computing and technology. The curriculum is designed to equip students with a strong foundation in computer science theory, programming languages, algorithms, data structures, software engineering, and hardware design. Some of the key courses Dr. Hitesh taught in computer science and engineering programs include Application Containerization, Build and Release Management, Advanced Java Programming, Advanced Data Structure, Advanced DBMS, etc.
Contact
Dr. Hitesh considers teaching a significant and rewarding part of his career. He has experience in teaching as an instructor for a number of courses. Challenges in instructing graduate and postgraduate students for his is finding ways to bring the students down into the nuts and bolts of the course and develop a system-level design approach without squandering their initial enthusiasm from the higher-level discussion. He found that allowing breadth in their final thesis/project report let the students explore any aspect of the topic of their interest while the tests and programming assignments provided a more hands-on working knowledge of computer algorithms in real-life implementation. His aim is to make frequent use of examples and motivate ideas by placing them in the context of both their applications and abstract generalizations. He favours a tutorial style of teaching that mixes lecturing with problem sessions in which students apply the ideas they are learning. This changes lectures from a passive experience to an interactive one and helps the teacher correct misapprehensions early on before the student’s tackle homework assignments on their own.
Teaching Philosophy