Research Interests
Ravindra Singh Rawat is one of the founding members of School for Life, UPES. He not only designed a Life Skill course titled 'Working with Data' but has also been leading the course. Ravindra holds dual post-graduation: in 'Business Administration with Specialization in 'Marketing Management' and 'International Business’, and an M.A. in Economics from HNB Garhwal Central University. At present, he has been pursuing his Doctorate from Uttarakhand Technical University, Dehradun on the topic 'Resurgence of MSMEs with Digital Technologies in Uttarakhand' (Thesis submitted). He has a passion for exploring new technologies and working with Data Sets for solutions in solving personal and professional problems. Besides, he has done many online certificate courses with various Specializations from 'Harward Business School', 'University of Illinois', 'Rice University', and the reputed 'IBM'. Owing to his keen creative instinct in Acting and Modelling, he has done an Acting Course from famous Anupam Kher’s academy ‘Actor Prepare’ in Mumbai.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
He is a Recipient of the Catalyst Award, 2023 in the Teaching & Learning category presented by Anthology Inc., USA.
Close
Ravindra Singh Rawat has taught courses like 'Working with Data', 'Learning How to Learn', 'Critical Thinking and Writing', 'Introduction to Economic Theories', 'Effective Leadership', and 'Industrial Management' among others. He has also undertaken modules of 'Working with Data' in leadership development programs.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
ravindras.rawat@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Ravindra's wide interest in research lies in Empirical Studies. His doctoral thesis focuses on Digitalization of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises for their overall growth. He has also a keen interest in multi-disciplinarian areas such as ‘Digitalization of Education’, ‘Gamification’, Digital Technologies, and ‘Date Science’.
Eligibility Criteria
He has presented his research work at various National and International conferences. He keeps regularly publishing his research papers in journals indexed in SCOPUS, and ABDC his latest publication from 2022 is a paper titled ‘Role of the Digital Technology in Accelerating the Growth of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in Uttarakhand: Using TAM (Technology Acceptance Model)’ published in Scopus and ABDC indexed journal ‘International Journal of Technology Management & Sustainable Development’. He is also a reviewer of SCOPUS, WoS and UGC Care-indexed journals.
Profile Summary
Ravindra Singh Rawat
Assistant Professor
Contact
Ravindra Singh Rawat holds over ten years of experience in Corporate and Academic Sectors: He began his academic career as an Assistant Professor at Uttaranchal University and has also worked as a Course Instructor for Amity online MBA program. Prior to Academics, Ravindra had worked as a Relationship Manager at Indiabulls Securities Ltd'; as an Event Manager at 'Asian Business Exhibitions and Conferences Pvt. Ltd' under Times Property.
Teaching Philosophy
He believes that a Teacher-Student connect is of paramount value in imparting knowledge through classroom education and he emphasizes the practical aspects of the learning so that the students benefit therefrom in their personal and professional journey. He motivates his students to seek inventive solutions to the issues they face, instead of through theoretical, bookish, or readymade answers.