Sandhya S. was a resource person and conducted lecture classes on Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry for PG diploma in Ethnopharmacology, a course conducted by Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, for two consecutive years in 2015 and 2016. She was invited as a subject expert and conducted sessions on Pre-Clinical Research in Siddha in CME on Research Methodologies for Siddha Faculty at The Tamil Nadu Dr M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai, in the year 2021. She has been an organizer, chairperson, and scientific session evaluator for several national and international conferences. Sandhya S. was the Convenor of the Nature Club, Materials Management Committee, Library Committee, Research Committee, Girl’s Welfare Cell, and Academic Officer. She has prepared the syllabus for M. Phil in Medical Anthropology and M. Phil in Health Humanities for Kerala University of Health Sciences and has published several research and review articles in national and international journals with high impact factor. She has presented papers at conferences and was awarded best presenter at various conferences. She is the editorial board member and reviewer of national and international journals. She has published patent applications and has applied for patent design grants in India and UK. Sandhya S. effectively handled unit dosage forms, Narcotic, and Controlled medicines, dispensing POM/OTC drugs to ambulatory patients, in-patients as well as out-patients.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
Faculty
Sandhya S. has over 21 years of experience in Academics and as Hospital Pharmacist in India and abroad. Before joining UPES, she was associated with PSM College of Dental Science and Research, Kerala, India, as a Professor and Head of the Department of Pharmacology. Before that, she was the Associate Professor and In Charge of the Centre for History of Medicine and Health Humanities, Kerala University of Health Sciences, Kerala, India. She was the Professor and Head of the Department of Pharmacognosy at St James College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Nalanda College of Pharmacy, India. She had worked as Hospital Pharmacist in Dr Noor Mohammed Khan General Hospital, KSA.
Scholarly Activities
Sandhya S. is a keen researcher with an interest in pharmacognostic standardization, bioassay-guided fractionation, and developing nanotechnology-based herbal formulations pertaining to gastrointestinal-related diseases/conditions.
sandhya.s@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Sandhya S. has effectively trained students pursuing BDS, M. Pharmacy, B. Pharmacy and Pharm.D. She has successfully handled Pharmacology theory classes and trained practical sessions for BDS students. She is an outstanding academician who has professionally taught and trained the students pursuing M. Pharmacy, B. Pharmacy and Pharm. D in areas that include Pharmacognosy and Phytopharmaceuticals, Herbal Drug Technology & Standardization, Herbal cosmetics, Chemistry of Natural Products, Herbal Cosmetics.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Sandhya S. has received Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Best Scientist Award in Pharmacy for her continuous and outstanding efforts made in the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences. She was honored with the Distinguished Senior Faculty Award from the Centre for History of Medicine and Health Humanities for her contributions to the field of medicine. She received an honorable mention for her contributions to the field of pharmaceutical research.
As an academician, Sandhya S. values helping her students understand difficult information. She is an expert in making students learn complex problems easily so they can develop the same habits of mind as professionals in the field of Pharmacy. She has completed MOOC on Digital Teaching Techniques and Theoretical Foundations of Educational Technology organized by ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, which she is utilizing for teaching learning techniques that can benefit students. Her pedagogy is based on conducting discussions, quiz programs, etc, that can mold the students to develop their talents in critical thinking and problem-solving.
Contact
Sandhya S. is an eminent academician in the field of Pharmacognosy. She is an expert in pharmacognostic standardization, bioassay-guided fractionation, and pharmacological studies, as well as herbal formulation development. She has developed several formulations pertaining to pediatric and geriatric groups. Her most significant and triumphant research is on gastrointestinal tract infections that encompasses Helicobacter pylori-infected ulcers, intestinal parasitic worm infestations, and amoebic and bacillary dysentery. Her ability to develop nanotechnology-based herbal formulations is outstanding.
Sandhya S
Teaching Philosophy