He has 9+ years of teaching and industry experience.
Research Interests
Vidyanand Mishra
Home
Work Experience
Assistant Professor – Selection Grade
Awards and Grants
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) at UPES Dehradun- (Jul 2016 – Present)
Close
School of Computer Science
ASE at TCS, Pune – (March 2012 - June 2014)
Faculty
Vidyanand.mishra@ddn.upes.ac.in
His primary objective is to prepare students to bridge the gap between academia and industry. His teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. He encourages and guides students to participate in Project-based Learning and global coding competitions.
Scholarly Activities
He completed Abhigyat conducted by ICT-IIT Kanpur in 2019 and was involved in SEED (CO PI) (2020) and RISE projects (Project Mentor) 2019. He has organized various events, conferences, seminars, workshops, technical bootcamps and hackathons in UPES. He was a part of the NGCT society member, NAAC and NBA auditing, and curriculum development team. He has successfully published several research papers in esteemed SCI/Scopus-indexed journals and conference proceedings, demonstrating his expertise and the depth of his investigations. These publications showcase his ability to critically analyze complex problems, propose innovative solutions, and effectively communicate his findings to the academic community.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
He teaches the fundamental subjects of computer science and engineering like Formal Language and Automata Theory, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Data structure, Operating system, Computer network, Object-oriented programming, and so on. He investigates how the backgrounds and incentives of these courses shape the formation and evolution of problem-solving. In another stream of work, he takes IT Network security, system security and IOT application.
Profile Summary
He completed a RISE grant of INR 50,000 as a Project mentor in 2021.
Vidyanand Mishra is currently working as an Assistant Professor (SS) of Computer Science at the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES). He acquired B.Tech (CSE) from RGPV, Bhopal, M. Tech in Information Security from NIT Allahabad, and pursuing his PhD in Computer Science from UPES, Dehradun. He has 2.5 years of experience in IT and more than 7 years of experience in academics and research. His research interest lies in Deep Learning, Computer Vision, and evolutionary algorithms.
Contact
Evolutionary Algorithm | Deep Learning | Computer Vision.
Teaching Philosophy