Research Interests
He served as a reviewer for Expert Systems with Applications, Kybernetes, Inder science publications, and the Jordan Journal of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. Served as reviewer for Inspire Awards-Manak 2019-20, National Innovation Foundation (Department of Science and Technology), Government of India.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
MHRD Fellowship (JRF/SRF), IIT-ISM Dhanbad from 2016-2021; GATE fellowship from 2014-2016.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Vijay Lahri teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. His teaching style has concentrated on case studies, real-world examples, and numerical models. He always includes some pedagogical tools. Such as concept mapping (through visual/graphic organizer to understand the new concept), Classroom discussion and feedback, Student-centered approach through problem-based learning (by giving problems to students in groups to solve the open-ended case studies), Questioning (it helps to understand whether the student is attentive or not towards to lecture).
Before joining UPES, Dr. Vijay Lahri worked as Assistant Professor for operations and supply chain at the Uttaranchal Institute of Management, Uttaranchal University in Dehradun, India. He also worked as a research assistant at NEOMA Business School, Rouen, France.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Supply Chain Modelling I Logistics Management I Sustainability I Analytics I Decision-making Modelling Using MCDM Techniques
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Dr. Vijay Lahri teaches the following subjects- Operations Research, Operations Management, Supply Chain, and Logistics Management. He has a keen interest in implementing sustainability concepts in the area of supply chain and logistics management.
Dr. Vijay Lahri
Dr. Lahri has developed lot sizing and network design problems using the mathematical modelling approach. He has considered multiple sustainability issues in an uncertain environment, which is immensely helpful for industries. The published work has a significant contribution from the theoretical and methodological perspectives.
Contact
Vijay Lahri is a professional researcher with a track record of achievement in higher education. He is an experienced researcher with expertise in Decision Modelling, Sustainable Supply Chain Optimization, and Operations Management. He has published research papers indexed in the WOS/ABDC/Scopus database and presented his research work at various international conferences organized by IITs and IIMs.
Vijay.lahri@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy