Her research interests include Control Theory, Educational Research, Dynamical Systems and Renewable energy
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Divya Ahluwalia has been the Head of the Department (Mathematics) and led various faculty development programs, committees, and events during the span of her career. She has completed her Ph.D from IIT Roorkee and has several research articles and two books (one as editor and one as author) to her credit.
Dr. Divya Ahluwalia believes that the best part of the teaching-learning process is a healthy and well-organized academic environment. She ensures that the students gain an in-depth knowledge of the subject and simultaneously participate in various academic and co-curricular activities. The keen and cordial interaction with the students has always energized her teaching efforts. She firmly believes that a strong teacher-student bonding boosts a conducive environment for learning which ultimately paves the way for the futuristic growth of both the learner and the teacher. She continuously thrives to bring innovation in her teaching pedagogy so that the students’ learning is enriched, and their knowledge is enhanced.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Divya Ahluwalia has more than 19 years of teaching experience. Before joining UPES, she worked for various reputed institutions which includes Graphic Era University, Dehradun, College of Engineering Roorkee, Roorkee, and Bharat Institute of Technology, Meerut.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Divya Ahluwalia
Dr. Divya Ahluwalia
Dr. Ahluwalia actively engages in various activities at the university and department level. She played a leading role in the conceptualization and implementation of ‘Math-Mania’, a mathematical event, for consecutive two years (2016 and 2017). She had a key role in the design and development of ‘The Centre for Academic and Faculty Enrichment’ (CAFÉ) and facilitated the implementation of various ‘Faculty Enrichment Programmes (FEP-2017-2018). Dr. Ahluwalia served as the Program Director of PGCAP (Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice) in 2018-2019, and led courses for the batches 2020-2021 and 2023-2024. She has been actively involved in the accreditation processes (NAAC and NBA) of the University and has been a member of various committees such as the Examination Committee, the University’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team, the Internal Complaint Committee (ICC), and the Academic Monitoring Committee (AMC) and Cluster headship group. She also served as a Mentor for social Internships of students, academic coordinator and organizing team member of several events and programs.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Ahluwalia primarily teaches Engineering Mathematics to undergraduate engineering students. She has taught various courses such as Numerical Methods, Graph Theory, Discrete Mathematics, Multivariate Calculus, and Algebra.
dahluwalia@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Blackboard Catalysts Award’, Blackboard Awards for Asia 2019 to recognise and honour innovation and excellence presented in Seoul, South Korea.
Applied Science
Teaching Philosophy