Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Sustainable Supply Chain Management, Halal Supply Chain Management, Circular Economy, Industry 4.0
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Dr. Mohd Imran Khan has worked as an Assistant Professor for more than 4 years at Lovely Professional University. He has also worked as a Teaching Personnel at GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
School of Business
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Mohd Imran Khan is currently working as an Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) in School of Business, UPES. He is a skilled, research-oriented, and dedicated instructor with a Doctorate Degree in Industrial Engineering from the Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. He has continually demonstrated a record of research and publishing excellence, including collaborative publications of numerous articles in top-tier academic journals. His expertise in fostering research and interest in mentoring and teaching students, ensures the development of innovative and impactful teaching and research initiatives.
imran.khan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Mohd Imran Khan
Dr. Imran’s teaching philosophy emphasized on practical application of theoretical concepts in real-world business situations, incorporating case studies, simulations, and experiential learning to bridge the gap between theory and practice. He fosters an interactive and engaging classroom environment where students actively participate in discussions, problem-solving, and hands-on activities. Dr Imran develop critical thinking skills in students by challenging them to analyse, evaluate, and synthesize information. He leveraged technology to enhance the learning experience, whether through online resources, simulations, or digital collaboration tools.
Contact
Dr. Mohd Imran Khan teaches a wide range of subjects such as Operations Management, Operations Research, Business Analytics, Data Visualization, Total Quality Management at PG/UG Level.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Mohd Imran Khan continually demonstrated a record of research and publishing excellence, including collaborative publications of numerous articles in top-tier academic journals. He successfully guided three PhD scholars as a main supervisor. His area of research stem from sustainable performance measurement of Halal supply chain to increase transparency using modern ICT technology such as Blockchain. Apart from that Dr. Imran served as reviewer for various academic journals, contributing to the peer-review process and shaping the direction of research in the field.