Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Neeti Goyal is Assistant Professor -Senior Scale in School of Law at University of Petroleum and Energy Studies. She is pursuing Ph.D. in the field of Banking and Insolvency Laws. she has qualified UGC NET in Law in the year 2018. Since January 2020 she is dedicatedly working with school of Law, UPES. Her area of interests is Banking Laws, Genders related Laws, Procedural Laws. she also had participated in various Faculty development Programmes organized by U.G.C and MHRD.
n.goyal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Before joining UPES, Ms. Neeti Goyal has worked at university five-year Law college, Rajasthan University, Jaipur where he undertook range of teaching, administrative and research responsibilities. At UPES also, she has taught various areas of law that includes Civil procedural and substantive Laws, Criminal substantive and procedural Laws, Banking, and negotiable Laws. She also is the faculty coordinator of NSS (National Service schemes) at UPES.
Faculty
Assistant Professor- Senior Scale
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
She has keen interests in Banking Laws, Insolvency Laws, Gender, and Law.
School of Law
Prof. Goyal believes in social pedagogy of teaching. She firmly believes that well-being, social development, and awareness are the most important qualities that a student can inculcate for holistic development. One to one mentoring and interaction with students are integral part of her teaching pedagogy.
Eligibility Criteria
Neeti Goyal
Profile Summary
Neeti Goyal is pursuing Ph.D. in Personal Insolvency Laws. She had published research papers in international and national journals of high repute. Two of her research Papers are published in journals indexed in Web of Sciences and Two Papers are published in journals indexed in UGC-CARE, Few Papers are published in peer reviewed journals.
Contact
Prof. Goyal have taught Banking and Negotiable Instruments Law, Code of Civil Procedure, Code of Criminal Procedure, Indian Penal Code, Company Law.
Teaching Philosophy