Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
To strengthen research profile and have global exposure she has not only participated in national events but also in international events. To mention a few, she has successfully completed the WIPO-UNIGE Summer School on Intellectual Property Organized by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the University of Geneva (UNIGE), Geneva, Switzerland.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Prof. Charu teaches modules particularly Trademark law, Copyright law, Patent laws and industrial design, Contract and Tort law. She has mentored several students on seminar papers and dissertation/thesis.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
To contribute to the academia, she also founded her own Blog/Venture known as THE IP PRESS [www.theippress.com]. She leads a team of IP-Holics, who started this blog to ensure access to the latest intellectual property (IP) issues for all the IP hopefuls. Through the venture, she addresses IP concerns of stakeholders, students, academicians, researchers, start-ups, etc. and guide them to attain and enforce their IP rights. Her Blog was also ranked 10th in top 100 IP blogs across the globe.
Close to a decade of experience as an academician and three years of entrepreneurship experience. Additionally, she has held multiple administrative responsibilities including Program Lead for the BBA/BCom LL.B. Courses, has led the Department of International Affairs at UPES School of Law, which deals with executing MOUs with foreign Universities, student and faculty exchange, collaborative research projects etc.
Her professional aspirations lie in changing the landscape of education system focusing more on synergizing with the global standards.
Profile Summary
Prof. Charu has written extensively issues concerning private law specifically on intellectual property law disputes including copyright issues between stakeholders, valuation of intellectual property laws, role of media, digital rights management, cyber terrorism, malpractices in India etc.
Dr. Charu Srivastava
She is an avid reader and writer of newspaper articles, blogs etc. encompassing various recent developments. To name a few she has written recently on “US and the West Asian Misadventures?" ; “Where does India stand on Global Innovation Index 2021?”; “The Suez fiasco: Possible legal suits and issues ahead”  ; “Beating the Dragon by innovation: Tiger needs a strong IPR regime” to keep herself updated on recent development at the international regime.
csrivastava@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Charu Srivastava is an academician and entrepreneur [Co- Founder of The IP Press Blog] [www.theippress.com]. She holds a Ph.D. in Copyright Law from GNLU, Gandhinagar & a Master Degree in Business Laws [LL.M.] from NLSIU, Bangalore, India. She also holds a Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice [PGCAP]. She is an avid reader and writer of newspaper articles, blogs etc. encompassing various recent developments. To contribute to the academia, she started her own Venture known as THE IP PRESS in 2020 to address IP concerns of stakeholders, students, academicians, researchers, start-ups, etc. and guide them to attain and enforce their IP rights. The IP Press Blog is ranked 10th in top 100 IP blogs across the globe.
Contact
With a diverse exposure to national and international platforms and the roles/responsibilities in her professional career, she aspires to contribute to academia through every possible means particularly through writing and experiential learning. Her class teaching focuses more on learning practical skills and developing analytical skills.
Teaching Philosophy
Research interest lies in Copyright laws, Traditional Knowledge, Trademark law, Patent law, Industrial design.