, contracted with Palgrave Macmillan (London). Along with several book chapters, book reviews and popular media contributions, Jha has published in leading academic journals such as the
Contemporary South Asia
Research Interests
. Jha taught at Heidelberg University (Germany) and the National University of Singapore (NUS).
Politics of Climate Change
Home
podcasts
explores the why, how and what of institutional change using a historical institutional approach. This research takes ideas, historical processes and endogeneity seriously. His research has been discussed in various
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Work Experience
ongoing research on state capacity
Awards and Grants
Territory, Politics and Governance
Close
: Political Science, Public Policy, Governance, Development, Institutions
Associate Professor
Economic and Political Weekly
Faculty
In the next leg of his research journey, he wishes to expand his
Pacific Affairs
;
Public Policy, Welfare and Social Policies
Previously, Jha taught at the Department of Political Science, South Asia Institute (SAI), Heidelberg University (HU), Germany and the National University of Singapore (NUS). At HU and NUS, Jha was involved in designing Political Science and Public Policy course curriculums. While at HU, he mentored several Master’s theses and informally advised Ph.D. students. Jha also served as a member of the admissions committee for the Masters’s Program and Ph.D. admissions coordinator at the SAI. Between 2017 and 22, he served as the coordinator of Marie Curie’s European Training Network Project. Prior to his academic engagement, he worked in the developmental sector in India.
, and
Scholarly Activities
the Washington Quarterly
Public Policy and Governance in India
Following are his core areas of teaching:
Comparative Politics
Heidelberg Papers in South Asian and Comparative Politics
. Jha served as a reviewer for the Fullbright Senior Award in 2021.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Jha teaches courses on various topics such as comparative politics; political economy; Indian politics; climate change; international relations; policy paradigms; institutions and institutional change; governance and development; welfare policies; transparency, accountability and corruption and qualitative research methods.
India Review
Areas of Interests
,
.
Institutions and Institutional Change
Jha has presented his ongoing research at various conferences and has served as a panel discussant. He has organised conference panels on multiple topics such as the state capacity, norms and recently published books by bringing together scholars worldwide. Jha further disseminates his published and ongoing research in various talks and distinguished lectures that he has been invited to deliver in leading global varsities. Jha has co-curated with his colleagues at HU and UPES a vibrant lecture series that provides a platform to engage and ideate with the leading global scholars in Social Sciences.
Profile Summary
Himanshu Jha
Teaching
International Journal of Public Sector Management
. He is working on his third book manuscript on
Additionally, he has reviewed manuscripts for book publishers such as the Oxford University Press and Routledge and has peer-reviewed journal articles for
Jha was the Co-PI of the World bank funded project examining the MGNREGS implementation in the undivided state of Andhra Pradesh. In his previous role as the national coordinator of Social Watch, Jha received institutional grants from the Ford Foundation, European Commission and Oxfam India. As a graduate student, he was awarded the Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Prize (SICCI) for the best thesis in South Asia. At NUS, he was also awarded research fellowships such as the President Graduate Fellowship and NUS research scholarship. Jha received Overseas Educational Programmes Grant Fund and Overseas Fieldwork Funding from the NUS. He has been awarded twice the German Academic Exchange Funding (DAAD) ‘Kongress’ Funding.
Democratization
co-edited volume
Capturing Institutional Change: the Case of the Right to Information Act in India (Oxford University Press)
Journal of Asian Studies
Keen to put knowledge in the popular domain and moving beyond the academic space, Jha has written widely on current socio-political and policy issues in the popular media. In that vein, Jha’s published work has been featured in newspapers, magazines and podcasts. Jha is the managing editor for the
Himanshu Jha holds a Ph.D. from the National University of Singapore, where he held the President Graduate Fellowship. Jha is an M.Phil in Public Policy from the Australian National University, M.A in Political Science from Jawaharlal Nehru University and holds a Bachelor’s degree in History (Hons.) from the University of Delhi. Given his multi-disciplinary background, he has developed a spirited scholarly interest in politics, public policy and history over the years. Jha’s empirical findings and theoretical underpinnings can be located at the intersection of all three. He has strong faith in field-based research and is sensitive to both area and discipline. Jha’s book,
Jha’s academic and research interests are broadly in Political science and Public Policy but reasonably interdisciplinary. Jha’s research primarily focuses on institutional and policy change, historical institutionalism, public policy, governance and development, politics of accountability, state capacity and politics of climate change. Jha has articulated his ideas in an authored book and recently published
International Area Studies Review
Indian Politics and Policy
and
Qualitative Methods
: Indian Politics, Political Economy, International Relations, Globalization and Research Methodology
Politics and Governance
Local and Global Governance and Development
Jha’s teaching experience and classroom interaction with undergraduate and graduate students have deepened his commitment to teaching and looking at social sciences in new ways. He believes in maintaining a judicious balance between the ‘area’, the ‘discipline’ and praxis. Jha has designed courses that include the robustness of theories, concepts and arguments in social sciences and are empirically grounded, having organic connections with real-world cases. He is keen to use interactive pedagogy in classrooms where students are encouraged to learn, ideate, question, articulate their views and think creatively. Jha has twice received teaching awards at NUS.
Teaching Philosophy
Indian and South Asian Politics