Research Interests
Received SEED grant from UPES, Dehradun worth Rs. 7.6 Lakhs as a Co-PI.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Awarded CSIR Senior Research Fellowship (SRF Direct) in Nov 2020 for pursuing independent research.
Overall, Dr. Roy has published over 30 research papers in high quality journals, 4 book chapters, 4 patents (National) and presented his research in numerous national and international conferences. He has been a member of the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET, UK) and is a life member of the Ion Beam Society of India (IBSI).
Close
Dr. Roy has published more than 30 research papers in high quality journals with over 380 citations, h-index = 12 and i-10 index = 16 (as of Dec 2023).
Faculty
Best oral talk award in the Healthcare and AI category in the 1st International Young Researchers’ Conclave (IYRC 2023) at UPES, Dehradun, India.
Biomechanics, Research Methodology, Biomedical Transport, Nanoscience & Technology, Biosensors and Connected Health, Instrumentation Techniques, Biophysics.
souradeep.roy@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Nano-electrochemistry, biomolecular sensors, microfluidics & lab-on-chip, connected health.
Prior to joining School of Health Sciences and Technology (UPES) as an Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, he worked in Centre for Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation (CIDRI), UPES as a Postdoctoral Researcher in a BIRAC funded project from Sept 2021 – July 2023. During this period, Dr. Roy developed a “First in World” sensor prototype for the intraoperative leveling in patients suffering from Hirschsprung’s Disease in collaboration with AIIMS Bhubaneswar. His postdoc research also included the development of piezoelectric sensors for detection of Hirschsprung’s Disease and COVID-19, for which he was a visiting researcher at Suranaree University of Technology (SUT), Thailand.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Best oral talk award in the Materials and Nanoscience section in International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Photonics (EExPolytech 2021) at Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University, Russia.
Dr. Souradeep Roy
Dr. Roy believes that students should have a clear understanding of the fundamentals while gradually building up to the advanced topics. In order to facilitate this process, he relies on simple real-world examples to explain “nature’s machinery” so that students can easily visualize the subjects and have fun learning. Dr. Roy adopts a multidisciplinary teaching approach in which he motivates students by mentioning the importance and prospects of cross-discipline learning in modern times as well as in the future. He encourages students to have interactive teaching sessions where they can actively think and participate in discussions for enhanced learning.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Assistant Professor
Dr. Souradeep Roy is a Nanotechnologist with over 6 years of experience working in the field of biomolecular sensors development towards healthcare and environmental applications. Dr. Roy received the B.Tech degree in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering in 2015 from Institute of Technical Education and Research (ITER), Bhubaneswar; followed by M.Tech (2017) in Nanotechnology from Amity Institute of Nanotechnology, Amity University Uttar Pradesh (AUUP), Noida. He received his PhD from AUUP in 2021 in a DST-UKIERI project, where he was a visiting researcher at Nanotechnology and Integrated Bio-Engineering Centre (NIBEC), Ulster University Jordanstown (now Belfast campus), Northern Ireland, UK. During his PhD tenure, Dr. Roy also received the Senior Research Fellowship (SRF Direct) from CSIR, New Delhi from Nov 2020 – Sept 2021. Currently, he is working as an Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at the School of Health Sciences and Technology, UPES Dehradun, India.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy