Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
She has published articles and book chapters in reputable legal journals and books, presenting her research findings to the wider legal community. She actively participates in conferences and seminars, sharing her expertise and engaging in meaningful discussions with fellow legal professionals and scholars.
She teaches corporate governance as an exploratory course during which students learn about how the businesses are managed fairly, ethically and in a transparent manner. She teaches the legal provisions and guidelines for how companies should operate and be accountable to their stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers and the wider community.
She vehemently believes in creating a positive and inclusive learning environment where every student feels values and supported. She understands that each student is unique and has different learning styles, strengths and challenges, therefore, as an academician, it is vital to cater to individual requirements of the students to help them reach their full potential. She believes in making learning exciting and relevant by connecting it to real-world examples thus encouraging critical thinking. She is approachable and empathetic, thereby, creating a safe space for students to ask questions and express their opinions.
Prior to adopting her role as an assistant professor, she was engaged in legal research as a full-time researcher at UPES for over 1.5 years emphasizing on the legal framework governing the role of green financing in mitigating climate change via listed companies in India.
Faculty
Corporate Law and Environmental Law
Anushka.srivastava@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Anushka Srivastava is currently working as assistant professor at UPES, Dehradun. She is an avid reader who is passionate about the intersection of law, finance and sustainability. She pursued her BBA LLB from Delhi Metropolitan Education affiliated with GGSIPU, followed by Master of Law from UPES, Dehradun where she was awarded the best PG student of the year award in 2022 for academic excellence. With a strong background in legal research methodologies and a love for academia, she strives to contribute to the ever-evolving field of law. As a legal researcher and academician, she is skilled in utilizing various research tools and databases to conduct thorough and rigorous research, analysing legal principles and synthesizing complex information into comprehensive reports. She is committed to fostering a dynamic learning environment and nurturing the upcoming generation of legal minds. She holds experience in teaching legal courses, guiding students in their academic pursuits, and facilitating engaging discussions on legal topics.
Anushka Srivastava
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
She received first prize at 1st Young International Research conclave organised by R&D (UPES) for best poster presentation in energy and environment theme. She was awarded a gold medal in Master of Law by the Governor of the state of Uttarakhand (2022).