anandan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Dr. Abhishek Nandan
Dr. Nandan frequently conducts training sessions for different stakeholders and has an impressive record of over 50 journal publications, over 20 conference presentations, and over 200 citations. His recent work focuses on techniques for sustainable development, water treatment, and air quality improvement.
His research interests encompass a broad range of topics, including Environmental Impact Assessment & Risk Assessment, Environmental Biotechnology, Air Pollution, Wastewater Treatment, Transportation and Solid Waste Management, Immobilization & Blotting Techniques, and Bioprocess.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Sustainability
Dr. Abhishek Nandan serves as an associate professor at UPES, Dehradun, and possesses a decade of extensive teaching experience. His distinguished academic background reflects his expertise in the field. Dr. Nandan not only has extensive teaching experience but also mentors students and contributes to research and publications.
Close
Faculty
In the fields of HSE and civil engineering, Dr. Nandan has instructed in every subject. His expertise is evident in his instruction of core courses in biotechnology, wastewater engineering, and air pollution, including Ambient & indoor air quality management, Environmental Engineering & Management, Fundamentals of Sustainable Development, Environment & SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) Himalaya Fellowship, Environmental Science, First Aid, and Emergency Procedure.
As an associate professor at the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun, Dr. Abhishek Nandan has received various ISO certifications such as ISO - 14001 (Environmental Management System), ISO – 17025 (Laboratory Management System), ISO – 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System), ISO – 9001 (Quality Management System). He has also worked on several internal and externally funded projects as an investigator and published more than 50 international journal papers and edited book chapters. Notably, his major patents include a Cancer Risk Assessment tool using Python Language, Indoor air pollution control by application of IoT, and a Water Filtration System using bio-adsorbents.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Abhishek Nandan is an experienced professor, who adds tremendous knowledge and experience to his work as a specialist in the industry. His stellar academic record significantly influences both research and publishing. Demonstrating his concern for students' growth and development, he is committed to mentoring and teaching them, making him a successful educator with excellent communication skills and a capacity for interaction with various audiences. Dr. Nandan consistently strives for greatness, encouraging a culture of learning and innovation driven by his passion for his subject.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact
Dr. Abhishek Nandan focuses on creating a stimulating and dynamic learning environment. He believes in encouraging students to think critically, apply their knowledge in real-world situations, and develop an inquiry-based mindset. Employing a student-centred approach, Dr. Nandan adjusts his teaching strategies to accommodate various learning preferences, emphasizing practical experiences, case studies, and real-world examples to enhance learning and memory of concepts. His goal is to equip students to become autonomous and lifelong learners by promoting open dialogues, collaborative learning, and active engagement.
Associate professor
Teaching Philosophy