Research Interests
Presented a paper titled "Changing Pattern of International Energy Investment and Regulatory Challenges" at the International Seminar on 'Enforcement Trends of Arbitral Awards: A Comparative Perspective' held on 27th and 28th July 2018 at NLSIU, Bangalore.
sambabukc@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Close
Presented a paper titled "Indian Consciousness and the Concept of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam: Its Relevance in a Globalized World" at the International Conference ('Indian Vision of Political Thinking: Possibilities of Global Alternative') organized by the Indian Political Science Association (IPSA) on 12th-13th August 2017, organized by the Department of Political Science, C.C.S. University, Meerut.
Faculty
Foreign Policy | Energy | Comparative Constitutionalism | Public Policy
Scholarly Activities
As a multi-disciplinary faculty member, Mr. Sam teaches a variety of courses in the social sciences, honours specialization courses in constitutional law and energy law. Some of the important courses he has taught in the department include political theory, international politics, comparative constitutionalism and federalism, transformative constitutionalism, sector-wise energy-related courses, and public policy.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Mr. Sam Babu K.C. is one of the longest-serving interdisciplinary faculty members in the Department of Law and Social Science. His core areas of expertise are recognized in comparative constitutional governance, energy transaction and litigation, and international relations.
School of Law
Presented a paper at the National Workshop on Access and Benefit Sharing and Conservation of Biological Diversity on 28th and 29th September 2018 at Christ University, Bangalore.
Profile Summary
Mr. Sam began his professional journey in the non-governmental organization sector as a coordinator for promoting activity-based school education among children in the national territory of Delhi with an organization called Jodo Gyan. Later, he switched to the project development team of EHA, a faith-based organization that works among the urban poor and marginalized, providing holistic hospital care. There, he operated in various capacities as a project officer, coordinator, manager, and trainer. On the academic front, he started as a political science lecturer at Unison School of Law, Dehradun. There, he taught subjects such as political thought, comparative governments, and political theory, and also served as the head of the BA. LL.B program.
Assistant Professor
Presented a paper titled "India's Sustainable Energy Security Concerns and Foreign Policy Alternatives" at the ICSSR sponsored National Seminar held on 15th & 16th March 2016 at DAV College Dehradun.
Sam Babu K C
Mr. Sam strives to evolve a teaching philosophy that is mostly oriented towards the nature of the course and topics where students can easily engage in discussions and be exposed to realities. This approach allows students to gain conceptual precision and real-world experiences. He uses the experiential learning format of simulation strategy, which fits well with the principles of student-centered and constructivist learning. Students engage in activities such as model United Nations (MUN) simulations and policy memo preparations. Simulations encourage enthusiastic and interactive engagement with the subject matter. Through simulations, students solve problems, adapt to issues arising from their scenario, and gain an awareness of the unique circumstances within the parameters. This teaching tool also helps develop better evaluation criteria along with the learning outcomes, ensuring that students are aware of the specific expected outcomes in advance.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Presented a paper titled "The United Nations as an International Organization: A Critical Globalization Talk" at the two-day national seminar on United