Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Dr. Choudhary is currently engaged in research pertaining to the circular economy and the role of IPR in the European Union, and also exploring IPR through the lens of religions for effective enforcement. Her paper on the former area has also been selected for presentation at the IP Researchers Europe Conference organized by the University de Geneve in collaboration with the World Trade Organization and World Intellectual Property Organization in Geneva in June 2023.
lchoudhary@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Assistant Professor- Senior Scale
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Dr. Choudhary is a graduate from NLU, Odisha, and a postgraduate from NLU, Jodhpur, specializing in the area of Intellectual Property Rights, particularly Patent and Biotechnology Laws. She has also completed her doctoral degree under the supervision of Prof. (Dr.) I.P. Massey from NLU, Jodhpur, on the subject of Genetic and Stem Cell Patenting.
School of Law
Dr. Choudhary has been associated with the School of Law, UPES, Dehradun, for 4 years, prior to which she worked at IMS Law College, Noida.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Intellectual Property Rights, Patent Laws, Biotechnology Laws.
A student excels when they challenge themselves to do better. Similarly, a teacher thrives when they are pushed and challenged by their students. The quality of students and the level of inquisitiveness regarding the subject determine the growth of a teacher. Dr. Choudhary firmly believes that growth in the wisdom and personality of a teacher should be constant, and there should also be a focus on interdisciplinary research, experiential learning, and cultivating a socially aware legal community. Teaching is a two-way process that requires sharing or exchanging information and knowledge, some based on theories while some lived in reality. It is in this process that we learn lessons which we may not have or probably may not experience ourselves. Teaching also requires one to not only be factually sound but also bear the personality that reflects a positive outcome of such experiences.
Dr. Choudhary has taught a diverse range of subjects such as Law of Patents, Industrial Designs Law, IP Litigation, Professional Ethics. She has also guided students towards writing seminar papers on a varied range of topics.
Contact
Dr. Latika Choudhary
Teaching Philosophy