Research Interests
Dr. Varun Pratap Singh is an assistant professor and industry-academia coordinator in the mechanical engineering cluster at UPES, Dehradun, India, and associated as a PDF with the Solar Thermal Energy Research Group, Department of Mechanical & Mechatronic Engineering, University of Stellenbosch, South Africa, specializing in solar thermal energy research. Dr. Singh started working on solar thermal technology as his major project with his undergrad (B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering, Rank Holder) and continued his passion in his postgraduation (M.Tech. Thermal, Mechanical Engineering, Gold Medallist) and during his Ph.D. (Mechanical Engineering-Solar Thermal) by conducting thermohydraulic analysis of different roughnesses in solar air heaters, respectively. In his current role, with academics, he is also responsible for industry-academia integration to provide solutions to the real-life challenges of design, product development, operations, automation, and the application of new technologies to real problems and challenges faced by industry and society.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Renewable and Sustainable Energy, Solar Thermal Energy Systems and Applications, Green Hydrogen, Micro-Hydro, Carbon Capturing, Storage, and Utilization, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), and Special Purpose Machines (SPM).
Close
To help students learn effectively and efficiently, Dr. Singh started using various online educational platforms such as Google Classroom (since 2014), Microsoft Teams (since 2018), and Blackboard (since 2020) with the integration of various MOOC platforms like edX (since 2014), Coursera (since 2014), Spoken Tutorial (since 2015), NPTEL (since 2016), SWAYAM (since 2018), Virtual Lab (since 2018), and hands-on latest tools and case studies like AR/VR/MV (since 2020) applications in the classroom (through Meta Quest 2). He has also worked to create case study-based lectures, study material, and PBL since 2018 that help students become more familiar with the concepts.
Faculty
In terms of his commitment to serving society, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Singh developed a true N-95 Mask manufacturing and production unit, automatic sensitizer dispenser units (1-5 litter capacity). Beyond these industrial collaborations, he also developed "a UV oven, a UV blaster, a UV sanitizer hand-held device, an automatic sensitizer tunnel (for humans, cars, and heavy-duty vehicles), face shields (170-600 GSM), a three-ply mask, and a foot-operated hands-free sanitizer machine" under his R&D facility.
Mechanical
Dr. Singh has vast experience in the field of mechanical engineering, with more than 14 years of teaching, research, and administrative experience. Before joining UPES, Dr. Singh served as an assistant professor and Head-Center of Excellence (coordinating between 16 different centers), Head-Solar Energy Center, Industry-Academia Relations Coordinator, Researcher, and Warden at the College of Engineering Roorkee (COER), Roorkee, India. He also successfully guided 100+ scholars from B.Tech. and M.Tech. programs during their major and minor projects and having four ongoing Ph.D. scholars in his research group.
Scholarly Activities
University Subjects Taught: Hybrid and Electric Vehicles, Automation in Manufacturing, Product Design and Development, Engineering Graphics/Design, Final Year Project Coordinator, Basic Mechanical Engineering, Energy Conservation, Power Plants, Solar Energy, Applied Thermodynamics, Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning, Heat and Mass Transfer, and Research Methodology.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
He has published 100+ research publications (including 20+ SCIE and 20+ Scopus papers), and nine patents, edited five books and authored 30+ book chapters for Springer, Elsevier, and CRC Press. He is an editor for IJERA journal, edited two special issues of SCIE journal Energies, and reviewed 20+ SCIE journals. He completed nine projects as principal investigator (PI) and two projects as co-PI for various research organizations and industry partners with research grants of more than five million INR. He has delivered many invited talks in international and national webinars, FDP, and Workshops and attended 20+ MOOCs and 15+ FDPs from various international and national bodies like DTU-Netherlands, Tsinghua University-China, National Chiao Tung University- Taiwan, IMF, IITs, and AICTE.
Being a teacher, Dr. Singh always feel motivated to serve society in a more meaningful way. With this in mind, he started sharing his subject notes and PPTs on Slideshare.com from 2014 onwards (free of charge) and today’s the total view counts on his account have crossed 100,000+ views with 5500+ downloads of different PPTs, which gives him a sense of self-satisfaction and the worth of sharing.
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
Dr. Varun Pratap Singh
Contact
varunpratap.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Singh received several awards including: the awards for Outstanding Mentoring of Students; Perfect Faculty Award (student mentoring); Outstanding Teacher Award (Result); Outstanding Teacher Award (Result) and also get certification for NPTEL Enthusiastic (MOOC); NPTEL Believer (MOOC); SPOC Recognition by IIT Bombay.
Teaching Philosophy