Dr. Chauhan has received grants from U-COST in field of Rural Entrepreneurship under which focus was on developing women entrepreneurship and in providing young entrepreneurs the knowledge about Intellectual Property Rights.
Research Interests
Dr. Himanshu Chauhan is a result-oriented Marketing and Entrepreneurship Leader with 16+ years of corporate, academia and entrepreneurship experience driving growth across education, Edu-tech, credit insurance, consultancy and IT sector with companies like Unisys, KPMG, ECGC Ltd. Established the Incubation Centre at Doon Business School, where Dr. Chauhan empowered aspiring entrepreneurs through strategic guidance, mentorship, and program management.
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Dr. Chauhan’s academic foundation, including a PhD in destination branding an MBA from the Faculty of Management Studies, University of Delhi, and graduate degree in Engineering from National Institute of Technology – Bhopal, complements his hands-on industry knowledge. Passionate about cultivating the next generation of business leaders and fostering a thriving entrepreneurial ecosystem.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Before joining UPES, Dr. Chauhan was at DBS Global University as Assistant Professor and Program Coordinator, before it, Dr. Chauhan started two startups in field of Edu-tech and worked with IT Giant – Unisys as Product Manager in Bangalore office. He also worked for KPMG as Management Intern, and as Assistant Manager (Marketing & Credit) in ECGC Ltd.
Close
Dr. Himanshu Chauhan
Faculty
himanshu.chauhan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Slow Tourism I Frugal Marketing I Consumer Behaviour I Entrepreneurship Sustainability
Dr. Chauhan teaches the electives on Integrated Marketing Communication, Service Marketing, Brand Management, Consumer Behaviour and other subjects like Marketing Management & Entrepreneurship Development.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
School of Business
Contact
Dr. Chauhan’s teaching philosophy centres on igniting a lifelong passion for learning by unleashing curiosity and nurturing a sense of wonder in students. Dr. Chauhan believe in playfully challenging assumptions and encouraging exploration through a mix of structured guidance and a sprinkle of mischief. In his classroom, he strives to be a facilitator, empowering students to actively participate, collaborate, and discover knowledge on their own. By fostering critical thinking and independent learning, Dr. Chauhan aim to mould minds that are not only knowledgeable but also adaptable, creative, and eager to embrace the joy of learning.
Leveraging expertise in brand management, concept selling, business alliances, and consumer behaviour, Dr. Chauhan consistently deliver impactful results, from helping in launching successful products and fostering key account relationships to leading high-performing cross-functional teams.
Teaching Philosophy