Research Interests
During the last two decades, she has taught different courses that include programming languages such as C, C++, Python, SQL, PL/SQL, etc., and Core Subjects like Operating Systems, Advanced Database Management Systems, and software engineering. Data warehouses, data mining, etc.
Before joining UPES in 2016, Dr. Mitali was at Tula’s Institute of Engineering and Management in Dehradun (2014–2016) and held the position of Head of Department. She also worked for Uttaranchal University, Dehradun (2010–2013) and ICFAI University, Dehradun (2007–2010).
Home
Work Experience
Title: AI-based solar-powered seawater desalination apparatus. Design Number: 366893-001/ Government of India.
Awards and Grants
Title: Adaptive Gamification in E-Learning Platforms: Enhancing Learners' Experience. Registration Number: L-122232/2023
Close
School of Computer Science
mchugh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Sanctioned Fund: 25000 USD (2019 Laureate Grant for Inter-Institutional Research and 2019 David Wilson Award)
Lifetime member- International Association of Engineers (IAENG).
Faculty
Lifetime member -Computer Society of India
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Project Team (UPES): Mitali Chugh (PI), Neeraj Chugh (Co-PI)
Best Researcher Award – 2020, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India.
Profile Summary
Software Process Improvement, Knowledge Management, Technical Debt, AI, ML, DL, and Data Analytics
Funding Agency: AQCI Research, Laureate International Universities.
Dr. Mitali Chugh received her Ph.D. (CSE) and M.Tech. (CSE) from UTU, Dehradun. She has 22 years of experience in teaching. Currently, he is working as an AP (SG) at the Cybernetics Cluster at UPES Dehradun. She received the Research Excellence Award for Excellence in Research in 2019. Her areas of interest include Software process improvement, Knowledge management, AI, ML, and DL. She has filed patents and received copyrights. She has been associated with many conferences in India and abroad. She has authored more than 40 research papers to date. She has been associated with many conferences in India as a TPC member, session chair, etc. She is a lifetime member of CSI and a member of IAENG and other renowned technical societies.
Research Project - InsighTD – Investigating Causes and Implications of Technical Debt in Software Projects Globally Distributed through a Family of Surveys.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Patents and Copyrights -
Dr. Mitali’s teaching philosophy is grounded in Enthusiasm and gaining knowledge through examples and practice are the keys to inspiring students to learn and implement it in the real world. To motivate her students, she follows both the enthusiasm and learning-by-doing approaches. In the classroom, the students are organized into teams to work on long-term projects and learn concepts. In addition, as the world is competitive, she encourages friendly competition in the class and follows a softer approach and rewards (viz., leaderboards and digital batches) because she feels it works the best.
Dr. Mitali Chugh
Collaborating Organizations: UNIFACS (Salvador University, Brazil) and UPES
Dr. Mitali is responsible for more than 20 high index research papers and publications. Her research papers have been adopted in atleast 3 Book Chapters.
Teaching Philosophy