Dr. Anup has made significant contributions to the academic community through his research publications. His work focuses on topics such as public finance, environmental economics, and agricultural economics. He has published research articles in reputable peer-reviewed journals, highlighting his expertise and dedication to exploring key economic issues and their implications. He actively participates in the scholarly peer-review process, serving as a reviewer for leading journals like Central European Journal of Operations Research (Springer), Journal of Public Affairs (Wiley), Cogent Economics and Finance, Cogent Business and Management, International Studies of Economics (Wiley), Economic Notes (Wiley), International Social Science Journal (Wiley), International Journal of Development Issues (Emerald), Iranian Economic Review and Indian Journal of Economics and Development.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Anup Kumar Yadava
Prior to UPES, Dr. Anup was at the IMS Unison University, Dehradun, held an Assistant Professor at the School of Management and acted as a co-coordinator of IMBA. During PhD, he also worked as an expert in the applied course- basic econometrics and time-series analysis with R software at the Department of Economics, Banaras Hindu University.
Awards and Grants
Dr. Anup teaches the business economics, public economics, managerial economics, and international economics. Through his attractive and cooperating teaching style, he creates a stimulating learning environment that nurtures his students’ intellectual growth. He equips his students with the necessary tools to excel in their academic and professional endeavours by combining lectures, class participation, brainstorming, problem-solving, and case studies.
Close
Dr. Anup received a national fellowship from University Grant Commission (UGC), and full-time doctoral fellowship from the Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR).
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Dr. Anup Kumar Yadava is a highly accomplished and dedicated academician specialized in the field of agricultural economics and public finance. With a PhD in economics and a focus on agricultural economics, he deeply understands the intricate dynamics of public economics, political economy and environmental economics. Dr. Anup's expertise extends to applied econometrics, parametric (Stochastic Frontier) and non-parametric (Data Envelopment Analysis) measures of productivity and efficiency analysis, reflecting his commitment to exploring the economic aspects of public policies.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Agricultural Economics I Public Economics I Environmental Economics I Productivity and Efficiency Measurement
anupk.yadava@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Contact
Dr. Anup has gained valuable experience in the realm of teaching. Through his engaging and interactive teaching style, he has effectively conveyed the business economics, managerial economics, public economics to a diverse range of students and simplify complex concepts and create an inclusive learning environment. He often utilizes the lecture method, problem solving, class participation, and case studies drawing upon his extensive knowledge and expertise to deliver informative and structured lectures. With a clear and articulate communication style, he effectively conveys complex economic concepts, making them accessible and relatable to students of diverse backgrounds.
Teaching Philosophy