Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
vijayasri.dhanvada@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Vijayasri Dhanvada
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Ms. Vijayasri Dhanvada always aims to stay connected with the Grassroots of design and focuses on it’s connection with rest of the world. She is Dynamic and innovative Design Assistant Professor with expertise in textiles and a passion for fostering creativity and critical thinking in students. With a strong academic background and practical industry experience, adept at integrating sustainable practices into textile design education. Proven track record of developing engaging curricula that emphasize hands-on learning and experimentation. Her master's degree in soft material specialization from Indian Institute of Crafts and Design. Proficient in textile design techniques, including weaving, dyeing and print making.
Profile Summary
Traditional Textiles, Semiotics, Indigenous Culture and Crafts, Culture and Design, Sustainable textile practices and innovations.
School of Design
Assistant Professor
Contact
Prior to her tenure at UPES, Ms. Vijayasri Dhanvada played a significant role at the DJ Academy of Design (Industrial Design and Communication Design), Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Within this capacity, she assumed diverse responsibilities such as Head of Academics, Research Coordinator, Timetable coordinator, Faculty Allocation and Examination Coordinator for the Design School along with her duty of Assistant professor for the subjects like Semiotics, Indian Aesthetics, Geometry and Construction etc. Prior to DJAD she worked at Jain (deemed-to-be) University, as an Assistant professor in Design Foundation and as a student coordinator.
Ms. Vijayasri Dhanvada teaches courses in Foundational Design, Elements and Principles of Design, Material Interaction and Explorations, Form and Space, Geometry in Design, Story of Design and Design process. She has taken subjects such as world aesthetics, Indian Cultural studies, Semiotics in product and communication design. She teaches students investigative and empathizing approaches, to brainstorm new ideas, and yield design solutions.
Vijayasri Dhanvada’s teaching philosophy is in mentoring students and fostering a supportive academic community, encouraging exploration, experimentation and innovation in design practices. Committed to staying current with industry trends and advancements, ensuring students are well-prepared for successful careers in design. She also believes teaching is a two-way story between a student and his/her mentor.
Teaching Philosophy