: Best Poster Award at the 9th Korean Society of Human Engineers Poster Competition, hosted by the Ergonomic Society of Korea.
Research Interests
Human Factors and Usability Engineering
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Fundamentals of Interaction Design
Virtual Reality
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Learning through Engagement:
He established the Human Factors and Interface Design LAB, School of Design, UPES. The primary goal of the research lab is to design, implement, and evaluate from the perspectives of Human Factors and Human-Computer Interaction. For more details about the research activities in the Lab.
Close
Dr. Naveen Kumar has garnered recognition through various awards and grants:
Dr. Kumar believes in experiential learning through hands-on research activities, recognizing their efficacy over repetitive explanations.
Faculty
Commencing with Simplicity:
: Secured the first prize in the DEW 2016 Design Challenge (Theme: Internet of Things), a competition organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Japan, and IIITDM, Jabalpur.
Mutual Learning:
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Naveen Kumar
Industry 4.0
Computational Neuroscience
Courses Taught
2021
Human factors
Eligibility Criteria
Design for User Experience
Design for Immersive Environment
: Received a Teaching Assistantship from the Ministry of Human Resource Development in India.
Google Scholar
Design Research Methods
Dr. Kumar encourages an open, non-authoritative mentor-student relationship, enabling vibrant communication and heightened productivity.
Naveen Kumar's teaching philosophy centres around cultivating interactive and productive learning environments, drawing from his rich experiences with accomplished mentors, educators, and students. His approach underscores the significance of interactive learning in fostering trust, and collaboration and advancing research and educational outcomes. As a mentor, Dr. Kumar prioritizes several key attributes:
: Awarded a Postdoctoral Fellowship from the National Research Foundation in South Korea.
Balancing Critique and Guidance:
Profile Summary
Human-computer interaction
School of Design
Immersive Interface Design
He advocates for students to begin with manageable topics, ensuring a solid foundation and preventing overwhelming starts.
He emphasizes the distinction between constructive criticism and insightful advice, aiming for discussions that drive positive growth.
Dr. Naveen Kumar has been actively engaged in scholarly pursuits:
Cognitive Ergonomics-I, II Tools and Techniques
Collaborative Environment:
2016
Understanding Design and Design Process
2020
naveen.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Software usability testing
Contact
Simple Interaction Design
Dr. Naveen Kumar's research contributions can be explored further through his Google Scholar profile:
He embraces the idea that mentors should remain receptive to learning from their students and colleagues, reinforcing a mindset of continuous learning.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Naveen held the position of Senior Researcher (HCI) in Industrial and System Design at Gyeonsang National University, South Korea. He has served as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Industrial Design at UID Gandhinagar for one year. He has also worked as a project consultant (UX) at UNDP - IIT Delhi for another year. With four years of industry experience, he worked as an R&D Engineer, contributing to developing various products, including air quality monitoring devices, agri-electronic products, ballistic instrumentation products, and healthcare products. Dr. Naveen also maintains a role as an R&D advisor with Cutting Edge Medical Devices (P) Ltd.
2018
Dr. Naveen Kumar holds a PhD in Human-Computer Interaction from the Department of Design, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and completed his Postdoc in HCI and AR/VR-based interface design from GNU, South Korea. His research focuses on enhancing tangible and virtual interfaces, systems, and devices through the application of Human Factors and Human-Computer Interaction theories and methodologies, particularly in areas such as smart factories, VR/AR, and healthcare products. He has authored over 20+ articles journals and international conferences. Also, holds two national and two international awards in the field of HCI and product design. Additionally, he has a patent in the healthcare domain and boasts a total of 12 years of industry, research, and teaching experience.
User experience design
Teaching Philosophy
2013
System Design
: Achieved the first prize in the Mech-Expo 2018 Design Challenge (Theme: Human Robot Interaction), organized by the makerspace at IIT Delhi.