Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Mr. Jain's diverse expertise allows him to teach a wide range of subjects, including Object-Oriented Programming, Java Technology, Python Programming, C/C++ Fundamentals, Data Structures, Web Technology, Data Communication, Computer Networks, Information Security, Theory of Computation, Compiler Design, and Blockchain Technology. His extensive knowledge in these areas enables him to provide valuable insights to his students in various areas of computer science.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Prior to joining UPES, he was an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the Oriental College of Technology in Bhopal. He has held various roles including HOD and MTech at Oriental College of Technology, Bhopal. Coordinator and Distance Centre Coordinator in the Department of CSE during his assignment.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Saurabh Jain has a distinguished record, with over 45+ worldwide research articles, patents, and contributions to various books and book chapters. Notably, the author has earned several prestigious international certifications from premier colleges around the world in the field of blockchain technology and security.
Profile Summary
Saurabh Jain has been awarded five national and international patents because of his work. He has also won several Best Paper awards at prestigious international conferences. His creative work and contributions have earned him acclaim and recognition in the academic and research communities.
Saurabh Jain is actively involved in several activities at various academic levels. Four of his scholars have successfully completed their master’s degrees under his guidance, which is a testimony to his excellent mentoring style. He has overseen several initiatives that have received acclaim and the results of those projects have been published in prestigious international conferences. He has organized several national and international conferences, workshops, faculty development programs, and short-term. Jain's main areas of research interest are network security, web security, cryptography, and blockchain technology. His commitment to encouraging education, research, and academic development is best exemplified by his commitment to developing aspiring academics and promoting his field.
saurabh.jain@ddn.upes.ac.in
Mr. Saurabh Jain
Contact
Saurabh Jain is a highly motivated and experienced Computer Science professional with a deep understanding of the subject and a deep passion for sharing knowledge. He is a distinguished academic professional with an impressive expertise of 14+ years. In 2012, Mr. Jain successfully completed his M. Tech in Information Security from MANIT in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India. Currently, he is pursuing his Ph.D.  from UPES, India. His academic pursuits and commitment to continuous learning reflect his dedication to advancing his knowledge and expertise in the fields of computer science and information security. He has consistently shown excellent skills in guiding undergraduate and graduate students through various computer science courses. Programming languages, information security, cryptography, blockchain technology, and other subjects are among his many areas of competence. Mr. Jain continually engages his students using cutting-edge teaching strategies that develop critical thinking and improve their problem-solving abilities.
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
He believes that students should have a solid foundation of technical knowledge. He strives to create an engaging learning environment in the classroom that fosters active participation, curiosity, and critical thinking.  His aim is to help students build a solid conceptual foundation on which to build while pursuing an engineering degree and career. He accomplishes this through lectures, demonstrations, practical experiments, and case studies.
Teaching Philosophy