gouranga.duari@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
His objective is to do advanced interdisciplinary research in the field of pattern recognition to use his skills acquired along the way to bridge the theoretical and practical applications and enhance the quality of life.
Close
School of Computer Science
As a passionate teacher possesses the remarkable ability to unveil complex concepts and algorithms into easily digestible form information by harnessing the power of relatable, everyday examples and engaging real-life experiments to deliver impactful lessons so that it resonates deeply to the students. Moreover, a teacher should present a thought-provoking-scenarios that can stretch the boundaries of the students' thinking ability, encouraging them to explore multiple perspective and think creatively.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Pattern Recognition – Looking into the unnatural behaviour data by analyzing the intrinsic behavior of the data characteristics, Topological Data Analysis (TDA) for improving stock market data pattern recognition.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Swami Vivekananda MCM Scholarships, GOI Higher Education Scholarship
Before joining UPES, he was at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, held a Teaching Assistant position at the School of Computer and System Sciences. He has extensive experience in applying machine learning to outlier detection, a solid theoretical foundation in relevant statistical and machine learning concepts. He published several scientific papers in prestigious international journals and conferences.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Dr. Gouranga Duari
Contact
He teaches Problem Solving, Descriptive analytics and Visualization. He also teaches specialized subjects like Machine Learning and Data Science.
He has completed his Ph.D. from Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India. He created several statistical and machine learning-based models for Outlier detection. During his M.Sc. at University of Delhi, he worked towards Optimization modelling. His research is aimed at expanding the use of ML-based techniques for unnatural pattern recognition. The use of data science, machine learning, and deep learning interdisciplinary fields is particularly appealing to him.
Teaching Philosophy