Research Interests
Professor Vinod Patidar employs an adaptive teaching approach, adjusting pedagogical practices to engage students in the learning process. He emphasizes interactive and joyful learning, altering the pace and delivering lessons from the students' perspective. His goal is to encourage active participation, enabling students to develop their own methods of analysis, reasoning, observation, and interpretation. By applying this approach, he aims to create a pleasurable understanding of concepts and facilitate knowledge retention and application in the scientific world.
LinkedIn Profile
Professor Vinod Patidar is a Fellow of the Executive Leadership Academy, University of California, Berkeley, USA and the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE) of India. He has also undergone training on University Governance and Academic Leadership offered by Vrije Universiteit, Brussels under the European Union ERASMUS+ LEAD 2 Programme. He has around 23 years (18 years post PhD) of rich experience in teaching, research, and academic administration. An internationally acclaimed and awarded researcher in the areas of Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Theory, Modelling and Simulation, Chaos-based Cryptography and Image Encryption, steganography, and DNA Cryptography. Prof. Patidar has around
Prof. Patidar has been awarded various research & travel fellowships /grants/awards like DST Young Scientist Research Grant, SERB-MATRICS Grant, COSTED Travel Fellowship, CIMPA-ICPAM Travel Grant (twice in 2004 & 2010), DST International Travel Grant (twice in 2009 & 2012), CCSTDS Travel Fellowship, NBHM Travel Grant (twice in 2010 & 2011), Faraday Bursary (Faraday Institute, University of Cambridge), ICTP (Italy) Guest Scientist Grant, ICIAM Funding (twice in 2011 & 2015), ICM-2014 NANUM Travel Grant, ICM-2018 Open Arms Grant, CSIR Travel Grant, Visiting Professorship-Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), UGC Junior and Senior Research Fellowships, etc. Overall, he has mobilized around INR 5 Million for various research-related activities.
Google Scholar Profile
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Teaching Philosophy
; ORCID Profile
Close
i10-index of 36
School of Computer Science
;
Faculty
For more details, see his
Prof. Patidar worked as Lecturer and Sr. Lecturer at the Apaji Institute of Mathematics and Applied Computing Technology (AIM&ACT) of Banasthali Vidyapith from July 2005 to July 2008, and as Assistant Professor (August 2008-August 2011), as Associate Professor (September 2011-August 2015) and Professor (September 2015-October 2018) at the School of Engineering, SPSU, Udaipur where he later served as Professor & Dean Research of the University from October 2018 to June 2023.
Cryptography, Image Encryption, Steganography, Watermarking and Secret Sharing, DNA Cryptography, Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Theory, Chaos-based Cryptography and Image Encryption, Modelling and Simulations, Quantum Image Processing and Encryption.
Professor Patidar has taught a diverse range of subjects: Applied and Theoretical Physics, Mathematical Methods for Engineers and Scientists, Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Theory, Research Methodology in Science and Engineering, Research and Publication Ethics, Digital Signal and Image Processing, Modelling and Simulations, Cryptography and Network Security, fundamentals of Information Security, Information Theory, Cryptography and Cryptanalysis, etc.
Scholarly Activities
to his credit with an individual
Prof. Patidar was a Visiting Scientist at the Helmholtz Institute for Supercomputational Physics, University of Potsdam, Germany and the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP), Trieste in 2003 and 2005 respectively. He also visited/worked at various academic and research institutes in Germany, Italy, Greece, Canada, Nepal, Brazil, South Korea and the United Kingdom for various short-term academic/research purposes.
and over
. One of his papers has also received the
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Professor Patidar is an Associate Editor of the Dynamical Systems Section of Frontiers in Applied Mathematics and Statistics (FAMS), Chaos Theory and Applications (CTA), Section Editor of Current Indian Science and a Reviewer of more than 40 international journals published by Elsevier, World Scientific, AIMS, AIP, IoP, IET, Springer, SPIE, IEEE etc.
MOST CITED PAPER AWARD for Image and Vision Computing (Elsevier)
Profile Summary
journal and four of his research papers on ‘chaos-based cryptography’ have remained in the ScienceDirect top 25 lists of most downloaded articles published in the respective journals during various periods.
vinod.patidar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Additionally, Professor Patidar believes that good research can foster excellent teaching. He, therefore, integrates his research experience into the classroom, involving students in ongoing research activities. This provides them with opportunities to work on real research problems, exposing them to current trends, tools, technologies, and their applications. Through this hands-on experience, students gradually develop an interest in research-oriented careers.
4350 citations
Prof. Patidar has completed a Young Scientist Research project “Application of chaotic dynamical systems in developing secure cryptosystems” and a MATRICS project “Development of new designs of secure image encryption schemes utilizing robust chaos and fractional integral transforms” funded by SERB, DST, Govt. of India. He has guided four PhD students and several Master’s students.
He is a Senior Member of IEEE, IEEE Signal Processing Society, IEEE Information Theory Society, IEEE Computer Society, International Association of Computer Science and Information Technology (IACSIT), International Association of Engineers (IAENG), Federation of Education Leaders and Administrators (FELA) and Scientific Committee Member of the International Conference on Soft Computing: Theories and Applications (SoCTA)
Contact
and
Dr. Vinod Patidar
95 publications
h-index of 21