Artificial Intelligence
Awarded a Research grant from Harvard Medical School- USA
Research Interests
Dr. Divya Tripathi
Divya.tripathi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Multicancer Early Detection Tests for Cancer Diagnosis, Kasturee Hajra1, Divya Tripathi2 and Dipak Maity3, DOI: 10.14218/JERP.2023.00007.
Close
Therapeutic Techniques for Cancerous Tumor Cells and Future Aspects of Molecular Cancer Therapy Volume 53- Issue 3. Divya Tripathi and Kartikay Singh Nayal DOI: 10.26717/BJSTR.2023.53.008407
Biomedical devices
Faculty
Dr. Divya Tripathi’s research interest is in contributing to a deeper understanding of Various aspects of Biology and engineering towards health care. She employs the design of various biomedical devices and formulation development.
Biomedical engineering, Immunology and ImmunoTechnology, Biostatistics-Biotechnology, Clinical Monitoring, Regulations in clinical research, Biomechanics, and Biomedical transport.
Scholarly Activities
Lab on chip
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Current Development of Bio-inspired Nanoparticles in Cancer Theragnostics, DOI: 10.20944/preprints202306.0058.v1.
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Divya Tripathi worked as a Postdoctoral Researcher at the World Health organization-central for disease control -USA, in affiliation with South Asian University, Ministry of External Affairs, Chanakyapuri, Delhi, on “Research and Development of point-of-care testing (POCT) for Measles and Rubella Diagnosis.” She also worked with the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, Defence Research and Development Organization, Delhi, on “Biomedical Devices & Formulations for combat casualty management.”
Read More
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Tailored MXenes and graphene as efficient telemedicine platforms for personalized health wellness. Kamil Reza Khondakar, ORCID, Divya Tripathi, Hirak Mazumdar, Kirti Ahujab and Ajeet Kaushik
Assistant Professor
Polymer chemistry
Biomedical soft robotics in health care: Prospective, applications and challenges, Book chapter: Elsevier
Awarded with Best Presentation at International Conference on Advances in polymeric materials & human health care (APA STERMI) October -2019, Goa-India.
Research Instruments: Experienced in Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR), Fourier Transform Spectroscopy (FTIR), • Hands-on Experience Small Animal Experimental Models Ø Lung: Inflammation, Fibrosis (Diagnosis and Treatment), Lung: Inflammation model using Radiation and Acid, Acid-Induced Lung Injury Model Ø Radiation-Induced Lung Injury Model Ø Wound Models: Burn, Incision, Excision, radiation, acid wound models Ø Efficacy testing of various drugs Ø Animal Dosing Techniques: Oral, subcutaneous(SQ), intramuscular (IM), intravenous (IV), and intraperitoneal (IP), retro-orbital plexus
Contact
Senior research fellowship Institute of Nuclear medicine And Allied Sciences, Defence Research and development organization (March 2020 -present)
Received: Ø AWSAR Award Department of Science & Technology (DST)- Best Popular Science Stories under Ph.D. Category AW/2021/4214
Radiology
Formulation development
Dr. Tripathi considers (1) Predicting the subject (or science here) as a definite live procedure and (2) individualizing one’s own learning experiences as the two most important criteria of effective learning and understanding of the subject. She has developed a newfound method-based core curriculum for undergraduates and graduate students to expand knowledge of bio instrumentation, biomedical engineering, Bioimaging, and clinical monitoring and regulations.
Dr. Divya Tripathi is a passionate fly researcher. Ph.D. (Biomedical Engineering) from Indian Institute of Technology aiming to work in state-of-the-art facilities for teaching and research; strong in logic and conceptual intelligence and has performed several research & published publications. She is Skilled in Molecular Biology, Formulation Development, and Characterization techniques; certified in small-animal imaging modalities (PET/SPECT) for translational preclinical studies; clinical studies and knowledge in animal handling. She is Proficient at performing pilot studies; design & synthesis of in-vitro and in-vivo biological experimentation; statistical design, and analysis of experiments. She has obtained various professional certifications and attended various scientific workshops and training. She has exposure to overall research and development of projects, right from planning, cost controls, risk mitigation, resource mobilization, and structured communications to final reviews within cost & time parameters
Teaching Philosophy
Junior Research Fellowship Institute of Nuclear medicine And Allied Sciences, Defence Research and development organization (Feb-2018 – March 2020)