Research Interests
Before joining UPES, he held the position of Assistant Professor at the School of Mechanical and Civil Engineering, Shoolini University and worked as a post-doctoral research fellow at the School of Mechanical Engineering, Kyungpook National University, South Korea.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
His areas of research interests include heat transfer, analysis of nanofluid flow through various heat exchangers, computational fluid dynamics, and exergy analysis of solar thermal systems. He is also keen on selecting optimal heat exchanger performance using AHP-TOPSIS and fuzzy logic techniques. He has published over fifty research papers in esteemed national and international journals on nanofluids, exergy analysis, computational fluid dynamics, and fuzzy logic, and has contributed a book chapter. He has taken part in numerous national and international conferences and workshops and has delivered several lectures.
Faculty
Dr. Kumar completed his doctorate in Thermal Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, in 2013 and his M.Tech in Thermal Engineering from Uttar Pradesh Technical University, Lucknow, in 2009. He worked as a post-doctoral researcher in the School of Mechanical Engineering at Kyungpook National University, South Korea, from 2013 to 2015. He has delivered faculty responsibilities in many esteemed Institutes at the graduate and postgraduate levels and has more than ten years of teaching and research experience. His research interest includes designing and developing thermal energy systems for industrial heating and cooling applications.
Mechanical
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Anil Kumar
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kumar is a renowned scholar in the Energy Engineering space. He has done international and national collaborative research on the analysis of nanofluid flow through various conduits, experimental evaluation of diesel blends mixed with municipal plastic waste pyrolysis oil on performance, emission characteristics of CI engine and enhancement of heat transfer utilizing small height twisted tape flat plate solar heat collector. He has guided four Ph.D. students as a supervisor and two as a co-supervisor. In addition to this, he has published 50 research articles in high-quality journals and received 15 Indian Patents.
k.anil@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Kumar received a post-doctoral grant from the Machinery Research Centre, Kyungpook National University in South Korea (December 2013 to November 2015). During his doctoral studies, he was awarded a fellowship from the Ministry of Human Resource Development (June 2009-July 2012). Additionally, he also worked as co-principal investigator on a HIMCOST-funded project from 2018 to 2020 to increase the efficiency of packed bed solar thermal energy storage by experimenting with various fin shapes on the absorber plate of a solar air collector.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact
Dr. Kumar teaches many subjects, such as Computational Fluid Dynamics, Energy Engineering, Solar Thermal Technology, Advanced Heat Transfer, Fluid Mechanics, Engineering Thermodynamics, and Automobile Engineering.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Kumar's teaching philosophy is rooted in the belief that every student possesses the potential for growth and accomplishment. He recognizes the individuality of each learner and acknowledges their distinct methods of grasping knowledge. As an educator, Dr. Kumar is dedicated to identifying the most suitable instructional approaches for every student. He diligently fosters his faith in the intelligence and capabilities of each student, striving to enhance their confidence and potential.