Research Interests
Assistant Professor-Senior Scale
Dr. Agarwal has taught courses like Predictive Modelling, Business Analytics, Programming for Analytics, Data Management and Data Preparation. She has developed a solid foundation in statistical modelling, machine learning techniques, and data mining. Leveraging advanced analytical tools and programming languages such as Python, R, and SQL, she has helped students in building successful predictive models to forecast business trends and develop a strong aptitude for extracting actionable insights from complex datasets using data visualization, exploratory data analysis, and statistical techniques.
Dr. Agarwal strives to create an environment that can support and encourage student learning. She believes that managers have different learning needs and it is important for them to acquire IT skills to support business objectives, decision-making, and strategic planning. Therefore, she incorporates case studies and real-world examples that demonstrate the application of IT concepts in managerial contexts. She also conducts technology demonstrations for her students to highlight the latest IT tools, platforms, and trends relevant to future managers.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Shweta Agarwal is a highly motivated researcher and her doctoral thesis, titled ‘Stock Market Response to Information Diffusion through Internet: An Empirical Study in the Indian Context’, focuses on investigating the relationship between information found on the internet (including social media and news articles) and stock market performance in Indian equity markets. She has published her research findings in esteemed international journals and has gained expertise in software tools such as MS Excel, SPSS, Amos, Tableau, SAS and, MATLAB. Her IT skills include Python, R Studio and, SQL.
Has reviewed articles for various reputed international journals like Aslib Journal of Information Management, Information Technology & People, Cogent Business Review, Financial Innovation, PLOS ONE
2019 Eminent Research Scholar Award, on Research Day, IIIT Allahabad, Prayagraj, India.
Close
2016 UGC NET, Qualified in Management.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
June 2017 Faculty Development Programme on Multivariate Data Analysis, IIM Kozhikode, Kerala, India
Dr. Shweta Agarwal
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
shweta.agarwal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Joined School of Business, UPES, as an Assistant Professor in the area of Business Analytics in Dec 2021.
July 2018 Machine Learning and Data Analytics (MLDA) workshop, IIITA, Prayagraj, India
Profile Summary
School of Business
2016 Best paper award, in Research Development Association 10th International Conference on Sustainable Growth and Innovation in The New Millenium, Jaipur, India.
Contact
Dr. Shweta Agarwal has done her MBA Ph.D. (Information Systems) from the Indian Institute of Information Allahabad in 2021. Her area of interest includes Predictive Analysis, Business and Data Analysis, Investor Behaviour and, Capital Markets.
Teaching Philosophy