Before joining UPES, Dr. Aradhya served as an Assistant Professor at Amity Law School, Amity University, Noida. She was a Full-Time Residential Research Scholar at the Faculty of Law, Banaras Hindu University.   She also held the position of Assistant Professor at Law College Dehradun, Uttaranchal University, Dehradun.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
She also won the Best Paper Presenter Award in the National Seminar on “Revisiting Women- Centric Laws from the Eyes of the Judiciary in the North-West Region”, organised by Amity Law School, Sponsored by ICSSR, NWRC, Chandigarh.
Published an article Titled “An Analysis of the Efficacy of Alcohol Regulations and The Incompetence of the Laws to Prevent Alcohol Misuse” Journal for ReAttach Therapy and Developmental Diversities, Volume 6 (09s), November 2023, Scopus Indexed Journal, (eISSN:2589-7799).
Close
Dr. Aradhya teaches Taxation Laws & Income Tax and Tax Planning. Before this, she taught Direct & Indirect Taxation, Jurisprudence, Interpretation of Statutes, IT Offences, Gender Studies, Environmental Law, Code of Civil Procedure, and Research Methodology.
Published an article Titled "Trade Secrets: A Critical Analysis of National Innovation Act” International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews, Volume 6 Issue 2, May 2019, Peer-Reviewed, UGC Approved Journal no:43602 & 5.75 Impact Factor (E-ISSN: 2348-1269, P-ISSN: 2349- 5138).
Faculty
Published an article Titled "Environmental Degradation Vis-à-vis Hazardous Impact of Plastic on the Environment” International Journal of Enviro Legal Research, Volume 5, November 2018 (ISSN: 2463-6401).
aradhya.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Published an article Titled "An Analysis of Gender-Based Intimate Partner Violence and the Defence of Provocation” International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews, Volume 9 Issue 2, June 2022, Peer-Reviewed, UGC Approved Journal no: 43602 & 7.17 Impact Factor, (E-ISSN: 2348-1269, P-ISSN: 2349-5138).
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Aradhya Singh
Courses Taught
Environmental Policy & Protection I Direct Taxation I Intersection of Gender Studies with Criminal Law I Integrated Gender Studies with Radical Feminism I Elderly Victimization I Traditional Cultural Expressions I Legal Theory.
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Published an article Titled “The Orphans of Justice: Children of Incarcerated Parents” IMS Law Review: Student's Edition (IMSLRW) Volume 3, 2022.
She won the Best Research Paper Award for the paper Titled “Unveiling the Chilling Truth: The Enigmatic Shadows of Criminal Behaviour in Adults Appearing from Animal Abuse at Early Age” at the National Virtual Conference on Animal Laws organised by the Animal Law Study Club (ALSC), UPES, Dehradun.
She also won the Best Paper Presenter Award at the International Conference on Law and Social Transformation organised by Alliance School of Law, Alliance University, Bangalore.
Published an article Titled “Provocation as a Defence to Murder: A Feminist Perspective” Mahamana Student Law Journal (MSLJ), Faculty of Law, Banaras Hindu University, A Peer-Reviewed Journal, Volume 1, No.2., 2021.
She also won the Best Paper Presenter Award at the National Conference on Gender Justice: Fostering Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion organised by CHRIST (Deemed to be University) Delhi-NCR.
Published an article Titled “Role of Feminism in Perpetuating Patriarchal Hegemony While Recovering the 3 Social Subordination of the Women” UPES LAW REVIEW, Contemporary Issues in Law and Policy, UGC CARE LISTED PEER REVIEWED JOURNAL, Volume -VI, 2021 (ISSN 2347-9620) Eastern Book Company.
Profile Summary
Dr. Aradhya has made significant contributions to legal academic research through various published research articles and presentations at esteemed International & National conferences. Her research has been recognized with multiple Best Presenter Awards, highlighting her ability to effectively communicate complex legal ideas. Her work spans a range of legal topics, reflecting a deep engagement with contemporary issues and a commitment to advancing knowledge in the field of law.
Dr. Aradhya is a Ph.D. from the Faculty of Law, Banaras Hindu University.  Her academic journey includes an LL.M. from National Law Institute University, Bhopal, and a B.A.LL.B. (Gold-Medalist) from Law College Dehradun, Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal Central University, Dehradun. Dr. Aradhya is also UGC-NET (Law) qualified.
Dr. Aradhya received a Gold Medal in her Undergraduate.
Assistant Professor
Dr. Aradhya follows Piaget’s teaching philosophy. As per this, students learn by engaging with their surroundings, experimenting, and discovering principles on their own rather than passively receiving information. Dr. Aradhya strives to integrate interdisciplinary perspectives into the curriculum, fostering critical thinking and encouraging students to explore the complex relationships between various subjects of Law.
She also won the Best Paper Presenter Award at the International Conference on Comparative Law, jointly organised by Amity Law School, Noida, Amity University, Uttar Pradesh & School of Business and Law, Edith Cowan University, Western Australia.
Published an article Titled “The Ill-Fated Repatriation of the Rohingya’s vis-à-vis Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019” Shodh Drishti: An International Peer-Reviewed Referred Research Journal, Volume 11, No.2, February 2020, UGC Approved Journal no: 49321 & 2.591 Impact Factor (ISSN: 0976- 6650).
Contact
Published an article Titled “Killing in the Name of Honour in India vis-à-vis Right to Life and Liberty: Contemporary Issues and Challenges” Shodh Drishti: An International Peer-Reviewed Referred Research Journal, Volume 9, No.1, January 2018, UGC Approved Journal no: 49321 & 2.591 Impact Factor (ISSN: 0976-6650)
Teaching Philosophy
ublished an article Titled “Environmental Sustainability in Meghalaya: Traditional and Modern Approaches in Conservation of Water Resources” Lex Terra, Centre for Environmental Law, Advocacy and Research, National Law University and Judicial Academy, Assam, Issue 44, June 2024 (ISSN 2455- 0965).