Awadh Pratap Singh
awadhp.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Close
Dr. Awadh’s teaching philosophy focuses on student-centric learning processes. He emphasizes the value of building a strong foundation for understanding. His interactive teaching style and attention to the needs of his students are distinguishing features. He enthusiastically engages students in insightful discussions, placing tremendous weight on their questions and responses. He incorporates relevant and exciting examples and real-life applications into his lectures because he believes in giving students the tools, they need to implement what they have learned. He regularly asks important questions to gauge students' understanding and develop their mathematical problem-solving and analytical skills.
Faculty
Dr. Awadh has maintained a wider research domain within the discipline of Mathematics. He has published several research papers in reputed international peer-reviewed journals and many chapters in edited volumes with international publishers.
Scholarly Activities
Operations Research | Fuzzy Mathematics | Data Envelopment Analysis | Nature Inspired Algorithms | Artificial Intelligence
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Dr. Awadh Pratap Singh is working as an Assistant Professor of Mathematics in School of Liberal Studies and Media.
Dr. Awadh has made significant scholarly contributions to operations research. His research area belongs to the measurement of performance efficiencies of educational institutions in uncertain environments with the help of data envelopment analysis (DEA). He also worked on solving complex optimization problems with the help of nature-inspired algorithms.
Contact
Dr. Awadh Pratap Singh completed his Ph.D. degree in Mathematics from IIT Roorkee. During his doctoral pursuit, the Ministry of Human Resources and Development (MHRD) honoured him with a merit-based scholarship. He holds an esteemed lifetime membership in the Soft Computing Research Society (SCRS), highlighting his prominence in the field. His research interests encompass Operations Research, Data Envelopment Analysis, Fuzzy Set Theory, and Nature-inspired Algorithms. He has made notable contributions through numerous research papers in renowned international peer-reviewed journals and chapters in edited volumes published by esteemed international publishers.
Dr. Singh received CSIR NET fellowship during his doctoral pursuit. He is an esteemed lifetime member of the Soft Computing Research Society (SCRS).
Dr. Singh's teaching interests extend beyond his research interests. In addition to his research-focused endeavours, he imparts knowledge in various courses, including Real Analysis, Programming in Python, Introduction to Data Science, Differential Equations, and Operations research.
Teaching Philosophy