Prof. Alok is involved in research and scholarly activities like student projects and collaborative research and is also pursuing his personal interests. Currently, he is researching enhancing the processing of LiDAR data, a sensor used for navigating autonomous vehicles.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Remote Sensing & Geographical Information Systems I GeoAI I 3D Data Processing I Image Processing I Machine Learning.
Close
School of Computer Science
Alok Jhaldiyal
Faculty
Alok’s teaching philosophy equips students, from fundamental knowledge to their field's most recent advances, preparing them for future assignments. He aids his theoretical lecture with intriguing demonstrations and practical sessions. Internal activities like real-time class activities, case studies, assessments and projects are used for benchmarking and assessing the students.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Alok Jhaldiyal is an academician and an avid researcher. On the academic front, he has been handling a handful of graduate courses in the core computer sciences area and additionally some specialization courses in the cyber security and data analytics domain. His research expertise lies in remote sensing and GIS where he uses existing and novel methods to understand urban dynamics.
Profile Summary
Before joining UPES, Prof. Alok was at the Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai, popularly known as IITB, he served as a Research Associate at the Center of Excellence in Climate Studies. Before IITB, he worked as a Network Associate Engineer at Buzzworks Business Pvt. Ltd and as a Technical Support at Amadeus India Pvt. Ltd.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Prof. Alok has taken a mix of core computer sciences and specialization courses. He has been involved in courses like Operating Systems, Data Communication & Computer Networks, Python Programming, Mobile Communication, IT Data & Application Security and Big Data Analytics.
Contact
ajhaldiyal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy