Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Parteek Prasher
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Parteek Prasher is an integral member of the multidisciplinary team for Respiratory and Inflammatory Research 'RAIR.' This eminent team of researchers from around the world aims to develop innovative technologies to manage various airway ailments and diseased conditions. Dr. Prateek's notable contributions include the development of tablet formulations from naturally occurring polysaccharides for the delivery of ulcerogenic NSAIDs. Moreover, he is actively exploring multitargeting small molecule inhibitors of adenocarcinoma, showcasing his dedication to impactful research.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
At UPES, Dr. Parteek teaches Organic Chemistry to both undergraduate and master's students. Some of the courses he tutors are Photochemistry and Pericyclic Reactions, Asymmetric Synthesis, Organic Synthesis Lab and more.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Parteek's research focuses on developing sustainable drug delivery systems based on naturally occurring polysaccharides. Additionally, he is actively involved in synthesizing small molecule inhibitors of adenocarcinoma, which target abnormal galactosylation of mucins.
Dr. Parteek received the Junior Research Fellowship (2012), Senior Research Fellowship (2014), and Lectureship Award (2012) from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for his doctoral studies. Additionally, he has been honoured with the Research Excellence Award by UPES for three consecutive years (2020, 2021, 2022). More recently, he was bestowed with the TARE fellowship and a research grant from the Science and Engineering Research Board (DST-SERB). Notably, he also holds the prestigious distinction of being recognized among the World's Top 2% Scientists for the Year 2021.
School of Advanced Engineering
pprasher@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Parteek Prasher is a distinguished scientist, being recognized among the World's Top 2% Scientists for the Year 2021. He currently holds the position of Associate Editor for the esteemed journal Frontiers in Drug Delivery. Additionally, he is a recipient of the prestigious TARE fellowship awarded by the Department of Science & Technology - Science & Engineering Research Board (DST-SERB), Government of India. Dr. Prasher's impactful global research collaborations have yielded exceptional outcomes in recent years.
Prior to joining UPES in 2016, Dr. Parteek was an Assistant Professor at Lovely Professional University. Currently, he also holds the position of SERB-TARE fellow at the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) Punjab, a role he has been fulfilling since December 2021.
Dr. Parteek's teaching philosophy centres on the integration of teaching and research. He believes in acquainting students with the latest practical advancements in their subjects, which have paved the way for groundbreaking research. By doing so, he ignites students' interest and encourages their active participation in the classroom. He believes that group activities play a vital role in fostering teamwork and enabling students to thrive in a diverse peer environment, preparing them to handle peer pressure effectively.
Contact
Applied Sciences
Teaching Philosophy