Dr. Adesh Kumar has 15 years of experience in Teaching, Research, and Industry, out of which 13+ Years at UPES. Before joining UPES, he worked with The ICFAI University, Dehradun, India (Dec 2009- May 2010) as a Faculty Member in Electronics & Communication Engineering, Senior Engineer at TATA ELXSI Limited, Bangalore (Nov 2008- Oct 2009), and as a Trainer-VHDL Expert at Cetpa Infotech Pvt. Limited, Roorkee, India (June 2006-Aug 2006).
Research Interests
Dr. Adesh Kumar
Home
Work Experience
Microprocessors, VLSI Design, VHDL, Digital System Design, Embedded System Design, Image Processing and Machine Vision, Microcontrollers and Microprocessors, Advanced Microprocessor and Embedded Systems, Real-Time Operating Systems.
Awards and Grants
Close
Electrical
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Senior Associate Professor
Courses Taught
Dr. Adesh Kumar aims to involve digital learning platforms and practical aspects using field studies, video lectures, experiments, and software tools to enhance lecture delivery. He insists on staying updated with the latest technology and literature as technology evolves. Dr. Kumar employs digital learning tools such as Blackboard tools, LMS, power points, and videos to ensure effective teaching. He believes in creating an educational process that meets students’ needs and satisfies international accreditation requirements. He emphasizes attracting and retaining the right talent pool by fostering an environment that promotes work freedom and empowerment. Collaborative research with reputed universities and producing competent graduates are also part of his teaching philosophy.
Eligibility Criteria
As a professional in the VLSI and Embedded Systems domain, he believes in practising software and hardware integration using the latest VLSI and embedded system tools. Dr. Kumar provides training to students in front-end VLSI design tools and embedded software and hardware to produce product-based outcomes. He actively engages in enhancing students' software skills in Xilinx ISE, Modelsim, Quatus-2, and other related FPGA hardware. Dr. Kumar has delivered a one-week FDP three times at UPES on Xilinx Tools for VLSI in July 2017, 2018, and 2019 and delivered a talk in IEEE UP Section 2020. He has also chaired more than 20 sessions at international conferences.
Dr. Adesh Kumar is a world-renowned expert in VLSI Design and Embedded Systems, with 100+ research papers in SCI/Scopus journals and conferences. He reviews esteemed publications like IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, Springer, Elsevier, and more. Having guided 7 PhD scholars and currently supervising 5, he's a dedicated mentor. He has chaired 200+ international conference sessions, contributed to PhD evaluations, and edited special issues. Serving as Editor for the "Intelligent Communication, Control, and Devices" proceedings, he's published 5 edited books, leaving a significant mark in his field.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Embedded Systems, VLSI Design, FPGA and SoC-Based System Design, Digital Image Processing, Next-Generation Communication Systems, Telecommunications
Contact
Dr. Adesh Kumar received a Certificate of Appreciation from the R & D department, UPES, Dehradun, for publishing research papers in 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018, and 2018-2019. He was awarded the Extraordinary Research Paper Award at the 3rd International RTCSE-018, Bangkok, Thailand, organized by Alborg University, Denmark, and Gyancity Research Lab, India. Additionally, he received the Dedicated Service Award for 5 years of service at UPES, Dehradun in November 2015.
adeshkumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy