Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Monalisa Anand’s research area is Mathematical Modelling, especially of infectious diseases. She has used different tools to model, like delay differential equations and nonstandard finite difference schemes. Currently, she is learning neural networks and stochastic models, to broaden her research.
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Monalisa Anand has published various articles in reputed national and international journals and has attended reputed conferences in national and international levels.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Monalisa Anand has taught fundamental mathematics courses to engineering students as a teaching assistant, while doing her Ph.D.
Qualified NET (LS) in 2019.
Faculty
Qualified GATE in 2019 with AIR 117.
Dr. Monalisa Anand
Scholarly Activities
Received SERB International Travel Grant to attend and present in ICIAM 2023 Tokyo.
Received travel grant from Society of Mathematical Biology to attend and present in KSMB-SMB 2024 Seoul.
Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations
Courses Taught
Dr. Monalisa Anand is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics, School of Advanced Engineering, UPES Dehradun. She has a passion for mathematical research and education and wants to make mathematics the easiest subject to understand. She finished her PhD from BITS Pilani Goa in April 2024. Her research interest lies in Mathematical Modelling and Epidemiology.
Eligibility Criteria
Complex Analysis
Linear Algebra
Before UPES
Profile Summary
monalisa.anand@ddn.upes.ac.in
School of Advanced Engineering
Advanced Differential Equations
Assistant Professor
As an Assistant Professor in Mathematics, Dr. Monalisa Anand’s goal is to inspire and empower the next generation of mathematicians by fostering a deep understanding of mathematical concepts and instilling a lifelong love for learning mathematics, while also giving examples and applications of each mathematical concept for visualisation.
Contact
The following courses are taught by Dr. Monalisa Anand -
Applied Sciences
Teaching Philosophy