Research Interests
With a remarkable teaching career spanning more than 7 years that has been defined by quality and dedication, Dr. Tanu Singh is a respected professor at UPES. With a solid foundation in Core Computer Science, software engineering, data analytics, data warehouse, she has consistently demonstrated her ability to teach and research.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Teaching Philosophy
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Tanu Singh has a solid academic background with more than seven years of cumulative experience. She has been in UPES since 2022 and has given her all to the practise of teaching and research. She is eager to share her knowledge and motivate the next generation of learners since she places a great emphasis on continual growth and academic success.
Dr. Tanu Singh
Dr. Tanu’s teaching philosophy is to create student-centered learning environments in which the student is in the driving seat of their own learning. She believes in “giving back to the community” and motivates her students to solve problems and find solutions to real-life problems existing in society and the nation. She facilitates thoughtful debates about the course topics while offering clarifications and advice. In order to close the gap between academia and industry and implement cutting-edge technologies and contemporary teaching methods, she is dedicated to maintaining up with the most recent industrial requirements.
Faculty
tanu.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Data Analytics | Data Science | Data Warehouse | Software Engineering | IOT
Assistant Professor
Dr. Tanu’s exceptional achievements during her career, she has received prizes and medals. These impressive accomplishments serve as a testament to his outstanding knowledge and commitment to her field. With her patent and design registrations, she has showcased her ability to not only conceptualize innovative ideas but also transform them into tangible solutions.
She has been actively organizing National and International level events at UPES under School of Computer Science and Cyber Sentinel (UPES Society). She has publications, patents and copyrights to her name. She explores a wide range of subjects in her research articles, including, machine learning, IOT and many more.
Contact
Introduction to C, Computer Graphics, Business Intelligence, Data Mining and BI, Data Structure