Shubham Joshi graduated from the prestigious National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, with a Gold Medal, and has pursued his integrated LLM and MBA degree from Germany’s renowned Bucerius Law School and WHU Otto Beisheim School of Management, graduating in the top 1% and receiving the award for the best master’s thesis. Prior to joining UPES, Shubham had 6 years of diverse professional experience as a litigation and transactional lawyer, working across India and Europe. Apart from academia and policy, Shubham has successfully managed, advised, and devised litigation and legal strategies for a diverse portfolio of clientele including renowned multinational entities, major Indian conglomerates, high net worth individuals and celebrities.
Research Interests
Apart from being awarded with a gold medal at NLSIU Bengaluru, Shubham was recognised for his contribution on systematically integrating extracurricular activities into the academic framework during his time as a student at NLSIU Bengaluru, with Alyosha Kumar Medal for Excellence in Sports and Extra Curricular Activities. Shubham has also received an award grant for his thesis being selected as the best master’s thesis during his post-graduation. The thesis scored the highest distinction of 1.0 (on a German grading scale where 1.0 is the highest possible grade). Shubham was also recognised for graduating with distinction in top 1% of the class (summa cum laude equivalent) during his post-graduation.
Conflict Management | Dispute Resolution | Arbitration | Negotiation | Legal Methods | Commercial Laws | ESG | Supply Chain Due Diligence | Legal Tech | Entrepreneurship | Start Up Financing | Digitalisation of Enterprises | Digital Innovation
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
At UPES, Shubham leverages his rich academic background and extensive practical experience (across both common law and civil law legal systems) to foster a learning environment that bridges theory with practice. Specialising in conflict management, commercial laws, regulatory compliances, startup ecosystem, and digital innovation, Shubham aims to bridge theoretical knowledge with real world application, preparing students for the constantly evolving field of law and complexities of modern legal practice. Beyond the classroom, Shubham is a dedicated mentor, guiding students in national and international moot court and ADR competitions, with a successful track record. His approach is grounded in making legal education both accessible and engaging, ensuring that students are well-prepared for their professional futures.
Shubham firmly believes in a "learning by doing" approach. True understanding comes from active engagement; thus, his teaching methodology involves immersing students in practical experiences, mirroring the realities of legal practice. This philosophy ensures that students not only grasp theoretical concepts but also develop the practical skills necessary for their careers. To achieve this, Shubham relies on dynamic interactive software, live class survey tools, and innovative pedagogical methods such as using licensed simulations and case studies from Harvard Business School and Harvard’s Program on Negotiation, among others.
Faculty
Shubham Joshi
Scholarly Activities
Shubham’s work experience is marked by noteworthy contributions to both legal practice and academia, with a focus on arbitration, commercial litigation, corporate advisory, and dispute resolution, including negotiation and mediation. Academically, Shubham has had the privilege of teaching a wide diaspora of learners, from civil servants and multinational corporation professionals to government officers and students from prestigious institutions such as the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, NUJS Kolkata, Nirma University, NMIMS, among others.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Profile Summary
Shubham’s research areas are deeply rooted in the nexus between law and business, focusing on critical issues concerning startups and businesses such as their organisation, governance, structure, financing, dispute resolution, digitalisation, and sustainability. At UPES, Shubham intends to explore the emerging landscape of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) principles, along with the relevant themes such as supply chain due diligence.
Assistant Professor
Shubham is currently teaching subjects from domains related to Negotiation, Mediation, Drafting, Pleadings and Conveyancing. Shubham enjoys teaching foundational courses such as Legal Methods, Critical Reading and Writing, Moot Court Advocacy, as well as core subjects such as Corporate Law, Contracts, Negotiation, Mediation and Arbitration. Shubham’s course on Negotiating and Drafting of Commercial Contracts has garnered significant praise in the past. Shubham also engages with students on entrepreneurship courses such as Basics of Entrepreneurship, Start up Financing, Digitalisation of Businesses, Digital Innovation and Internationalisation of Startups.
His engagement in academia extends beyond India, having been engaged to deliver academic assignments and training programs at several reputed international universities such as University of Vienna, Charles University (Prague), University of Bologna (Italy), University of Hamburg (Germany), among others. Shubham has also curated corporate training and capacity building programs for HUL, WIPRO, L&T, etc. and is regularly invited as a key resource person/guest faculty for legal training modules for the Indian Revenue Service Officers at the National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes, and Narcotics.
shubham.joshi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Shubham is actively engaged in publishing scholarly works and has published critical pieces on several leading blogs and journals. His writings are often included as a part of reading lists used in various universities. Shubham publishes on forensic aspects of commercial laws and intersection of law and business. He serves as a reviewer in review panel of several leading Indian law school journals and as an advisor at several ed tech platforms promoting research, writing and oral advocacy among law students and professionals in India. He has assisted in publication of books with leading publishers such as Wolters Kluwer, and EBC.
Teaching Philosophy