Dr Ranjna Sirohi
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Ranjna Sirohi and her team are working on developing novel biomaterials from food waste for applications in functional food development. Their primary focus is developing oligosaccharides, enzymes, and bioactives for health enhancement. They are also working on developing dried products with higher Nutrition and shelf life using faster and energy-efficient drying technologies.
Close
Dr Sirohi has won several awards and honors that include Ph.D gold medal from GBPUAT Pantnagar, Best poster award in BSHAFEE-2021, IIT, Jodhpur, Best PhD Thesis Award from the International Society for Energy, Environment and Sustainability (2020), AU-CBT Excellence Award, the Biotech Research Society, India (2020), Research Excellent Award in the international conference on New Horizons in Biotechnology, Trivandrum, India (2019), Best Poster Award in 8th International Forum on Industrial Bioprocessing-2019 (IBA-IFIBiop 2019), Miri, Sarawak, Malaysia (2019) and Research Excellence Award in International Conference on Bio-Innovation for Environmental and Health Sustainable Developments (BEHSD-2018), Lucknow, India (2018).
Associate Professor
Faculty
ranjna.sirohi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr Ranjna has taught courses as Beverage Technology,
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Ranjna Sirohi actively engages in various scholarly activities such as presenting research findings at national and international conferences, delivering lectures as invited speakers in India and abroad, publishing research papers in peer-reviewed journals of international repute. In addition, Dr. Sirohi also serves as a reviewer for more than 20 journals and serves on the Editorial Board of 4 journals. She has also received several awards and recognition for her contributions in food waste management, food science and technology and bioprocess engineering.
UPES
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Food Microbiology and Safety
, Food and Nutraceuticals, Fermentation and Industrial Microbiology, cereal, pulses and oilseeds, Food science.
, she served as a Research Professor at Korea University in Seoul, South Korea. Additionally, Dr. Sirohi has worked as a researcher at esteemed institutions, including ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute in Karnal, ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering & Technology in Ludhiana, CSIR-NEERI, Nagpur, CEES, Lucknow and École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne in Switzerland.
Dr. Ranjna Sirohi's teaching philosophy centers around fostering an engaging and inclusive learning environment. She believes in a student-centered approach, encouraging active participation, critical thinking, and problem-solving. She aims to inspire students to become lifelong learners and emphasizes the practical application of knowledge in food science and technology.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Dr Ranjna Sirohi is an Assistant Professor in the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand, India. She was a post doctorate researcher at the Korea University, Seoul, South Korea. She has worked as a visiting researcher at École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Switzerland. Her primary research interests are bioprocess technology, food waste valorization, green technologies, biopolymers, and biofuels. She has over 120 publications and an h-index of 32 (Google Scholar). She is listed in the world's top 2% scientists as per the 2022 study by Stanford University and Elsevier. She is an Associate Editor of Bioresource Technology (Elsevier), and she is also on the Editorial Board of several national and international journals. She is also a CSIR-SRF fellow, DST-SERB International Travel Grant Awardee, and IBA (France) Research Excellence Awardee.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Sirohi has more than six years of research experience in Bioprocess Technology, specializing in food waste valorization, waste-to-wealth strategies, microalgae cultivation, and biofuels. Before joining