Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Nonlinear Dynamics I Vibration and Control I Structural Dynamics I Mechanism Design | Synchronization |Nonideal Drive I Advanced Solid Mechanics
Faculty
Mechanical
Dr. Saurabh has taught the subjects basically related to mechanical design like Engineering Mechanics, Strength of Materials, Kinematics of Machine, Dynamics of Machine and Control Engineering under UG courses. In PG courses, he has taught Advanced Mechanism, Finite Element Method, and Advanced Solid Mechanics.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Saurabh Kumar Bharti
Dr. Saurabh received the Academic Excellence Award, during Masters in Visveswaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur. Ministry of human resources development (MHRD), India scholarship for Ph.D., (2016-2022). Ministry of human resources development (MHRD), India scholarship for M. Tech., (2009-2011).
Dr. Saurabh has Worked on applications of general theory of dynamics, systems, and control to a wide range of engineering problems. These consist of multi-body dynamics, structural dynamics, mechanisms design, rotordynamics, vehicle dynamics, nonlinear vibration, and its control. He could handle the nonlinear dynamics problems efficiently and skilled in multibody simulation tools like Bond Graph Modelling, MATLAB/Simulink, Sim Mechanics, MSC Adams. Dr. Saurabh has keen interest to worked on advanced solid mechanics and experienced to solve industrial problem by using finite element analysis tools such as Ansys, Hypermess and Nastran.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
Contact
Before joining UPES, Dr. Saurabh was research scholar on Systems, Dynamics, and control lab at Mechanical Engineering Department in IIT Kharagpur. He has three years of experienced as Assistant professor at Mechanical Engineering Department in GLA University, Mathura. After completion of M Tech, Dr. Saurabh has worked as Assistant Engineer on Structural Analysis Department in Cargotec Engineering India Pvt Ltd, Pune.
saurabhk.bharti@ddn.upes.ac.in
In classroom, Dr. Saurabh ‘s teaching philosophy is based on the better understanding of concept and create the interest among students to solve the engineering problems by using this. By giving real situation and variety of problems in the assignment helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Saurabh discovered new types of Sommerfeld effects in rotor-dynamic systems as part of my research work. He applied his research results to test cases like asymmetric rotor shafts, truck suspension system with universal drives and torsional vibration resonances in z-configuration universal drive. Dr. Saurabh has considerable experience in multi-energy domain system modelling, multi-body dynamics, and proficient in simulation tools like Symbols, MATLAB -Sim Mechanics/Simscapes, MSC- ADAMS, etc. So far, Dr. Saurabh has seven research publications in reputed journals, all of which are SCI indexed and are in Q1 (top quartile). He also co-authored a book chapter and some conference articles and ability to solve problems in Applied Mechanics areas.