Prof. Amit received Best Researcher award at Shenzhen University. He has also received prestigious Highly Cited Researcher for 2021 in Cross-field category (World Top 1%) by Clarivate. He has been listed in World top 2% Scientists as per Stanford Rankings for years 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 in the yearly as well as lifetime category.  He has also been Mentor for DST INSPIRE, Govt of India. He has received grant of 6,474 € at Shenzhen University from State funding agency, China. He has also completed joint project at King Saud University with research grant of $100,000
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Sustainability I Waste-to-energy Conversion I Advanced waste water treatment I Agro-waste valorisation I Advanced and hybrid nanomaterials I Advanced Oxidation Processes I Hydrogen production
Before joining UPES, Prof. Amit was at School of Materials Science and Engineering, Shenzhen University, China as a Senior Scientist, held a Director position at the International Research Centre of nanotechnology for Himalayan Sustainability, Shoolini University, India. He is a visiting Faculty at School of Physics and Chemistry, University of KwazulNatal, South Africa and Nanotechnology and Catalysis Research centre, University of Malaya, Malaysia. He has held position of Distinguished Scientist at King Saud University, Saudi Arabia.  He is chief adviser of the key research and development program of Shaanxi Province, IIIR, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, PR China.
Prof. Amit has taught various courses at several levels. These include Nanotechnology, Physical chemistry, Waste management, Advanced quantum chemistry, Group theory, Organometallics, Bio-physical chemistry , Research Methodology and Instrumentation and Photochemistry.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Professor Amit Kumar is one of leading experts on advanced photocatalytic waste water treatment using hybrid nanomaterials, hybrid composites, heterostructures ans bio-inspired materials. He has a work experience of over 10 years at various national and international institutions. Prof. Amit Kumar started his research career with Ph.D in Chemistry at Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, India in 2008. He was awarded with the prestigious predoctoral scholarship of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (Government of India) in 2007. He has served as Senior scientist in college of materials science in Shenzhen university, China for over 8 years. He has international experience of over 8 years serving various positions in China, South Africa and Malaysia. He has experience supervising seven Ph.D and 20 Masters students. He is a Highly Cited Researcher -2021 and also ranked among the World's top 2% Scientists since the year 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 as per Stanford rankings. His scientific production encompasses 250 research papers with more than 17000 citations and H-index of 75. He is serving as editor and reviewer in various reputed scientific journals.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
kumar.amit@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Amit has led international collaboration and dedicated multidisciplinary group for key solutions for advanced waste water treatment and hybrid materials for mineralizing persistent pollutants and contaminants of emerging concern. Prof. Amit has been actively involved in valorisation of agro and food wastes to convert them into effective photocatalysts for environmental detoxification and clean energy conversion. Prof Amit’s research endavours has led to publications in high impact journals as Applied Catalysis B: Environmental, Nature NPJ Clean water, Chemical Engineering Journal, Carbohydrate polymers, Journal of hazardous materials, Journal of Cleaner production etc. He has filed over seven patents out of which three have been granted. He has experience of supervising masters and PhD students at national and international levels. He has established collaborations with premier institutions as CSIC Madrid, Spain for advanced catalytic solutions. He has also organized various international conferences, workshops and seminars for dissemination of the knowledge and recent trends on waste to energy conversion, waste water treatment, advanced hybrid materials, bio-inspired materials, waste management and circular economy.
Amit Kumar
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Prof. Amit’s e teaching philosophy involves encouraging student learning through exploration, innovative approach, curiosity-driven learning and hands-on activities. He aims to bring an open mind, a positive attitude, and high expectations to the classroom each day. Creating a type of atmosphere where students can meet their full potential is indispensable. As a teacher he feels providing a safe environment where students are invited to share their ideas and take risks is highly beneficial for effective learning process. Research should be an integral part of education.