Before joining UPES, Dr. Sonali Vyas was at the Amity University Rajasthan for 3 years at Assistant Professor II capacity. Before that, she also held Assistant Professor position at Jaipur National University for 5 years and she worked with SS Jain Subodh PG College Jaipur for a year.
Dr Sonali Vyas
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Associate Professor
Faculty
She has been awarded as “Young Researcher Award 2022, by Universal Innovators Leadership Awards (UILA 2022)”, “National Distinguished Educator Award 2021” and “International Young Researcher Award 2021”, instituted by the “International Institute of organized Research (I2OR) which is a registered MSME, Government of India” and Green ThinkerZ. Also awarded as “Women Researcher Award 2021”, by VDGOOD Professional Association in International Conference on award winners in Engineering, Science and Medicine. Also awarded as “Best Academician of the Year Award (Female)” in "Global Education and Corporate Leadership Awards (GECL-2018)”.
Scholarly Activities
Dr Sonali Vyas has taken lectures and sessions of UG and PG students in the areas of Machine Learning, Advanced database management. She has also made students work on Python data analytics, C/C++, C#, .Net and Android Programming. Also, she taught students concepts of Agile Development and Management.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
svyas@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Dr Sonali Vyas is serving as an academician and researcher for more than 12 years. She is a Senior Member-IEEE and Lifetime member of CSI. She is an active researcher, and her prime areas of research are healthcare informatics, data analytics and mining. She has authored around 40 research papers, articles and chapters in SCI/WOS/Scopus-indexed journals/conference proceedings and books. She has also authored and edited many books in the areas of machine learning, telemedicine, artificial intelligence, healthcare, blockchain, etc. She is also a member of the Editorial Board and Reviewer Board in many referred National and International journals. She has also been a member of the Organizing Committee, National Advisory Board, and Technical Program Committee at many International and National conferences. She has also Chaired Sessions at various reputed International and National Conferences.
Dr Vyas is currently supervising PhD scholar in IoBNT and AI for healthcare ingestible devices. She has also guided M.Tech Scholars in the area of Machine Learning for Healthcare Applications. She also motivated students of B.Tech to work for patents and startups related to Road Safety and healthcare for elderly and disabled people. She has also guided several UG and PG students for their Major and Minor projects.
Healthcare Informatics, Data Analytics, Database Virtualization, Data Mining, and Machine Learning
Contact
Dr Sonali Vyas's teaching centres around empowering minds and inspiring growth in the students. She firmly believes that education is not just about imparting knowledge; it is about fostering critical thinking, nurturing curiosity, and developing essential skills that will enable students to thrive in an ever-changing world. Her teaching approach is student-centered, holistic, and grounded in the principles of inclusivity, engagement, and lifelong learning. She believes that education has the power to transform lives and empower individuals to become active contributors to their communities and global citizens who make a positive impact on the world.
Teaching Philosophy