Research Interests
All India Rank 4 in M. Tech Entrance exam at Jamia Millia Islamia university, India.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
divya.mishra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision, Digital Signal Processing, Digital Systems, Information Security Governance
www.linkedin.com/in/divya-mishra-920a091a5
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Divya believes three basic core Principles of the teaching Philosophy:
Faculty
Precision Agriculture using AI
Remote sensing Image Super-resolution
Collaboration and Innovation: Foster an environment where both students and teachers explore new ideas, collaborate, and think critically.
Prestigious Kaufmann Award, for outstanding Ph.D. Research students in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Ben Gurion University, Israel.
Scholarly Activities
UGC-GATE Fellowship in M. Tech as PG-GATE Scholarship}, Received UGC Fellowship for 2 years during master’s study.
Dr. Divya actively contributes to IEEE community and reviewer in several SCI/Scopus-indexed journals and conferences like IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on Image processing, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing, IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, Multimedia Tools and applications, IJCNN ‘A’ ranked conference and many other. She also received certification of appreciation as a reviewer by the chief editor of Journal of Electronic imaging. Additionally, she also published one patent titled "Hybrid-Optimized Deep Learning Model for Rapid COVID-19 Detection using Respiratory Audio Signals”
for industry, agriculture, and research.
Dr. Divya Mishra
Deep learning
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Personal Webpage:
Linked-In:
Dean Award, given to top 1% Ph.D. students in Ben Gurion University, Israel for their cumulative achievements in research.
Student-Centered Approach: Focus on the needs and interests of students, adapting teaching methods to ensure inclusivity and engagement.
Profile Summary
Dr. Divya Mishra has completed her Ph.D. in specialization Image processing and computer vision from Ben Gurion University, Israel. Her Ph.D. research work is in joint collaboration of Israel Space Agency (ISA), Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) and Ben Gurion University (BGU), Israel, completely funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology, Israel. Her Ph.D. work focused on “Real-world Unsupervised Remote Sensing Image Super-Resolution”. She worked on Israel’s first single band nanosatellite BGUSat and successfully able to do super-resolution by 10 times. She also used her research findings practically as an application and worked in collaboration with Israeli Agritech company: “Crytal vision Integrated solutions” which provides smart automation and control systems
Image Super-resolution
Assistant Professor
Appreciation Certificate from Editor-in-Chief of "Journal of Electronic Imaging" for reviewing articles in the academic year 2023.
Image processing and Computer vision
Unsupervised representation learning
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2ZTwh3AAAAAJ&hl=en
Contact
A good teaching philosophy ensures that educators set structured yet flexible guidelines that adapt to individual student needs while maintaining clarity and purpose in the classroom.
Negev Scholarship for outstanding Ph.D. students in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Ben Gurion University, Israel.
Dr. Divya Mishra has 3 years of Industrial experience as Quality control Engineer and currently serves as an Assistant Professor in the School of Computer Science at UPES.
Dr. Divya has honored prestigious Kaufmann award for outstanding Ph.D. student inSchool of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Dean’s award for cumulative achievements in Ph.D. among faculty of engineering and prestigious Negev Scholarship given to outstanding Ph.D. research students apart of regular Kreitman Scholarship for Ph.D. She has also co-supervised 7 undergraduate and 1 master’s student towards final year project and thesis completion during her PhD.
Kreitman Scholarship, for completing Ph.D. studies in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Ben Gurion University, Israel.
Google Scholar:
Teaching Philosophy
Feedback and Reflection: Regularly provide feedback to or from students and reflect on teaching practices to improve outcomes.
https://sites.google.com/view/divya-mishra