Research Interests
NET  Qualified for Lectureship by CSIR – UGC (2019).
Dr. Niloopher Salam works on inverse problems, specifically nonlinear ill-posed problems. She focuses on developing regularization methods and explores the convergence analysis of various existing regularization schemes by relaxing restrictive conditions and thereby increasing the applicability of these methods to a wider range of problems. Dr. Niloopher also investigates various applications of inverse problems like Electrical Impedance Tomography, groundwater filtering, etc.
Home
Awards and Grants
Dr. Niloopher has published various articles in reputed international journals.
Close
As a first-time teacher, Dr. Niloopher is committed to continuous reflection and improvement in her teaching practices. Her experience as a teaching assistant for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses during her PhD has equipped her with the confidence and expertise for handling the students as well as the courses she is about to teach. Her experience in tutoring international students helps her recognize the diverse learning styles and requirements of her students. Dr. Niloopher believes that education should empower individuals to think critically, creatively, and independently. She aims to create a supportive classroom atmosphere where students feel encouraged to ask questions, explore new ideas, and challenge assumptions. As a first-time teacher, Dr. Niloopher is committed to continuous reflection and improvement in her teaching practices. She welcomes feedback from her students and peers to refine her teaching practices.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Niloopher Salam
Eligibility Criteria
niloopher.salam@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
Contact
Applied Sciences
Apart from mathematics, Dr. Niloopher likes to make artwork, especially oil-paintings and scribble art.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Niloopher Salam is interested in working on nonlinear ill-posed problems and developing various regularization schemes to tackle the same. She is also interested in adapting a machine learning approach to propose novel regularization schemes.