Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
She believes in developing a student-centered learning environment that nurtures curiosity, critical thinking, and lifelong learning. Her teaching philosophy is grounded in the belief that every student possesses unique strengths, backgrounds, and learning styles, and it is her responsibility to create inclusive and engaging learning experiences that accommodate diverse needs and preferences in alignment with the modern day industry demands.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Anuradha Saini
Food waste valorisation I Green extraction techniques I Improved delivery systems for encapsulation of bioactive compounds I Bioactive compounds I Food product design and development
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Her scholarly pursuits encompass a range of activities, notably including the publication of numerous research papers, presentations at both national and international conferences, as well as active participation in workshops, seminars, and training sessions.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
With expertise in food process engineering and technology, she has taught the courses such as Advanced Food Engineering, Food Equipment and Plant Design, Food Plant Sanitation, Food Beverages, Food Additives, Food Safety and Quality Management, Enzymes in Food Processing, Advanced Dairy Technology, Novel Food Packaging Technology, and Advanced Food Processing and Preservation Technology.
She was honoured with the Director’s Quality Publication Award at SLIET, Punjab.
Assistant Professor (Sr. Scale)
anuradha.saini@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prior to her tenure at UPES, she served as an Assistant Professor at the Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University Rajasthan, Jaipur. Additionally, she contributed as a Teaching Associate in the Department of Processing and Food Engineering at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCS HAU), Hisar.
She is a dynamic and dedicated educator with a passion for fostering student learning and academic excellence through inspiring and engaging classroom content. Her research focuses on the green extraction of bioactive compounds, valorisation of food industry waste, design of improved delivery systems for the encapsulation of bioactive compounds to enhance their functionality.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy