Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Shraddha Manish Gupta
Close
Faculty
Shraddha received a certificate of excellence as “Women Researcher Award” at International Research Awards on Science, Health, and Engineering SHEN 2021 Awards. She also received a certificate of appreciation for being a Mentor in the CSIR-SRTP (2020) program under the Interdisciplinary Approach for Sustainable Use of Resources project-13. (From June-August-2020). She is qualified GATE-2004 in pharmacy discipline conducted by IIT Delhi for M.Pharm. Admission (GATE Percentile-96; All India Rank-341).
Scholarly Activities
Shraddha has taught several courses in his teaching career, including Pharmaceutical Inorganic Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Instrumental methods of analysis, and Modern Pharmaceutical Analytical Techniques. Currently, she is teaching Medicinal Chemistry-I, which imparts fundamental knowledge on the structure, chemistry, and therapeutic value of drugs. The subject emphasizes on structure-activity relationships of drugs, the importance of physicochemical properties and metabolism of drugs, and the chemical synthesis of important drugs under each class. She also teaches Pharmaceutical Analysis which deals with the fundamentals of analytical chemistry and principles of electrochemical analysis of drugs.
Shraddha is a knowledgeable and experienced pharmacy professional and an expert in medicinal chemistry. Her award-winning and significant research focuses on Alzheimer’s disease and drug repurposing. Alzheimer’s disease addresses issues related to a gradual decline in memory, thinking, behavior, and social skills. In comparison, drug repurposing (also called drug repositioning, reprofiling, or re-tasking) is a strategy for identifying new uses for approved or investigational drugs that are outside the scope of the original medical indication.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Shraddha's approach to the classroom is based on the idea that she must foster an environment that is conducive to learning for her students. Some aspects of "flipping the classroom" (in which students are given reading assignments outside of class time and then tested on them within class time) have been included in her teaching style. By challenging them with real-world issues, students can go from simple to complex problem-solving.
Computer-Aided Drug Design I Lead Optimization I Drug Repurposing I Novel Drug Discovery I Neurodegenerative Disorders I Alzheimer’s Diseases
Shraddha was honored to be a Keynote Speaker on CIIES Webinar at DIT University on: Pharmaceutical Innovation: A Step towards Making Atma-Nirbhar Bharat. She secured a 78% (A+) grade in AICTE-approved FDP under ARPIT entitled “Advances in drug discovery and formulation development.” By IIT BHU, Varanasi. And secured 71% in SWAYAM online certification course on ‘Analytical Techniques’ (15 weeks, 4 credit) offered by AIIMS, New Delhi. She secured 3rd prize in a Poster presentation entitled: “Novel Indole Analogues as Inhibitors of Acetylcholinesterase Enzyme, their Synthesis, Evaluation, and Uses Thereof (Patent Application Number: 202211065309)” at the International Young Researchers Conclave-2023 organized at UPES in January 2023.
Contact
shraddham.gupta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
Before joining UPES, Shraddha was at the DIT University, Dehradun. She also worked at Monash University, Malaysia; NMIMS University, Shirpur; Pune and RGPV University. And has more than 15 years of experience in teaching and research.