Research Interests
Dr. Satabdi Datta
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Post Doctoral Fellowship at Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand under PISCES partnership programme led by Brunel University London, 2022- 2024.
TARA Award for 'Most Promising New Staff Member' in appreciation of an outstanding contribution to the Development Alternatives Group and to the cause of sustainable national development, Development Alternatives, October 2021.
Close
Circular economy, climate change adaptation and resilience, natural resource management, sustainable tourism.
Dr. Satabdi Datta is experienced in supervising and managing master’s level interns, student assistants and junior professionals and is aware of the knowledge gaps and challenges in applying theoretical and academic learning into practical applications. From that perspective, while developing a knowledge of economic theories and principles, she is in favour of expanding the room for students to inculcate critical thinking and developing analytical skills. She believes that teaching is a mutual and continuous learning process for both the students and the teacher. She prefers to bring in the insights from her research into classroom teaching and expose the student to the very real-world economic challenges that demands application of economic theories.
Dr Satabdi Datta has been involved in multidisciplinary research projects with national and international collaboration. She made multiple academic and policy publications and presented her research in multiple national and international seminars, webinars, conferences, workshops. She has also delivered invited lectures in universities.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Satabdi Datta has academic training in Economics with specialization in Environmental and Resource Economics, Econometrics and Development Studies. She did Ph.D. in the field of livelihood vulnerability to natural disasters and climate change adaptation from the Department of Economics, Jadavpur University. She has been involved in multidisciplinary research with national and international collaborations and has work experience in the science-policy interface. The sectoral focus of her research engagements has been agriculture and allied, fisheries and tourism. Her areas of research interests include circular economy, climate change adaptation and resilience, natural resource management, sustainable tourism and evaluation of ecosystem services.
Eligibility Criteria
Project Fellowship for Asia- Pacific Network for Global Change Research (APN) project on "Coastal Ecosystem and Changing Economic Activities: Challenges for Sustainability Transition along Chinese and South Asian Coasts", Global Change Programme, Jadavpur University, 2012- 2015.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Satabdi Datta was involved in an international research project on circular plastics economy in the capacity of a post-doctoral researcher at Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand. Earlier, she also worked with non-profit organization and did research consultancy in the domain of policy research in the fields of natural resource management and climate change.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
School of Business
satabdi.datta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Teaching Philosophy