Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Computer Networks, FANET and Cyber Physical System
dk.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
School of Computer Science
Dhirendra Kumar Sharma
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Design Analysis of Algorithm, Cloud Computing, OOPs through Java, Data Communication Networks, Source Code Management, IT Security, Applied Devops, Computer Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, Fuzzy Logic and Applications.
Courses Taught
Dhirendra Kumar Sharma believes in a teaching methodology where activity and project-based learning have a significant impact on students' learning experience. The individual's teaching interests lie in Computer Networks, Design Analysis of Algorithms, Mobile Communication, and Programming (C, C++, and Python). For programming subjects, he/she emphasizes activity-based learning to help students build a strong foundation in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE). Additionally, project-based learning is considered essential for senior students who are planning to explore opportunities in the industry as interns or trainees.
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dhirendra Kumar Sharma completed his Ph.D (CSE) from Indian Institute of Technology (ISM) in 2016. His research interest is in protocols development for ad hoc networks, wireless sensor networks, UAV communication, Cyber-Physical System and Cyber Security. He is a reviewer of IEEE and Elsevier journals.
Dr. Dhirendra has extensive experience in teaching, practicing, and conducting research in communications and computer networking. He held various academic positions in several esteemed organizations. He is the author, co-author of several peer reviewed technical papers in the areas of mobile ad hoc networks, communication networks, computer communications, and wireless network management. He is an ACM member since 2020. He is reviewer of Journal of Network and Computer Applications (Elsevier), Computer Networks (Elsevier), Wireless Networks (Springer) and IEEE System Journal.
Dr. Dhirendra received 3 internal patents granted. Patents are 2 Australian and 1 German. He has participated in several T3 of IBM and Xebia for courses.
He has an extensive teaching experience of more than 10 years. Before joining UPES, Dr Dhirendra was at the Avantika University Ujjain as Assistant Professor. He also worked at VPKBIET Baramati, MITS Madanapalle, and National Institute of Technology, Raipur.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy