Goutam Datta
Research Interests
Completed NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute Lab: Image Classification, object detection, Neural Network Deployment using DIGITS
Home
Work Experience
Data Mining, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Software Engineering, Data Analytics, Operating Systems, Shell programming, Object Oriented Programming etc.
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Before joining UPES, Goutam had worked in various universities and industries and has more than 20 years of teaching and industry experience.
Goutam Datta is pursuing his Ph.D. from Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali, Rajasthan. He completed his M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering, B.E. in Computer Science and Engineering, and Diploma in Industrial Electronics from M.D. University, Rohtak, Amravati University, Maharashtra, and Board of Technical Examination, Mumbai, Maharashtra, respectively. His areas of interest lie at the intersection of Natural Language Processing and Machine learning, in specific areas relating to language translation and Deep learning. He has undergone various short-term training programs on Image and Video Processing, Data Analytics, and Natural Language Processing at IITs, IIITs, and IIMs. He has also delivered hands-on training on various tools at different universities. He has more than 20 years of teaching and industry experience. He authored around 20 research papers for international conferences, international journals, etc. He has also filed and published many patents. He has reviewed several conference papers and journal articles. Goutam has professional memberships with ISTE and EAI. Goutam joined UPES in October 2018.
Faculty
gdatta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Gautam’s research interests lie in the intersection of Computational Linguistics, Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning, Data Mining, Information retrieval, and Brain-Computer Interface.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Goutam has successfully completed the AI and Deep Learning Workshop of Leading India AI, Bennett University, Greater Noida project.
Goutam has mentored various B. Tech. and M.Tech. research projects and helped in motivating students to pursue research work that helps society in some way. He has guided various projects at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. One of his mentored projects in the domain of computer vision got an award at the district level.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Contact
Goutam believes in the overall conceptual understanding of the subjects, problem-solving skills, and project-based learning. By incorporating the above skills, students can be prepared to apply their knowledge to solve real-world problems effectively and face any challenges.
Teaching Philosophy