Dr. Mittal has research interests in various fields like Experimental & Computational Combustion, Chemical Kinetics of Hydrocarbon Fuels, Alternative Fuels, Autoignition & Flame phenomena at elevated pressures, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Gas Turbine Combustion, and Solar Energy.
Research Interests
gauravmittal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Close
Dr. Mittal served as the Principal Investigator on several projects funded by NASA, the US National Science Foundation, and the US Department of Energy. He has participated as an expert on various research panels of the US Department of Energy, National Science Foundation & Petroleum Research Fund.
https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=1901AN0AAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Faculty
Mechanical
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Mittal believes in imparting a fundamental understanding of core engineering concepts. He fosters the belief that if a student can understand and solve simple problems, they can confidently tackle complex & challenging engineering tasks. He takes great interest in inculcating project-based learning amongst students using contemporary computational tools to enhance their enthusiasm and learning experience.
Dr. Mittal teaches a variety of core as well as advanced and elective engineering courses. He particularly enjoys teaching Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics, Mechanics of Materials, Heat Transfer, Kinematics of Machines, and various advanced courses in Fluid-Thermal Sciences such as Combustion, I.C. Engines, and Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Mittal worked as a Research Associate at Case Western Reserve University, USA (2005-2008). He joined as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at The University of Akron, USA, in 2008, and was promoted to the rank of Associate Professor in 2014. He also served as a Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering (2017-2022) at Graphic Era University, Dehradun.
Dr. Mittal has made remarkable contributions to the field of development of advanced engines and combustors by developing novel & well-characterized experimental facilities and using those facilities for studying the chemical kinetics of fuels at elevated pressures relevant to advanced engines & combustors. His research is documented in high-impact journal publications and has been cited widely.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Gaurav Mittal
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Gaurav Mittal completed his B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering from IIT Kharagpur, followed by a Master's in Computer Applications from IIT Delhi. He pursued Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Combustion at Case Western Reserve University, USA. Dr. Mittal served as a tenured faculty at The University of Akron, USA, and worked on several projects funded by US federal agencies, including NASA, NSF, and DOE.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy