Dr. Kumar’s teaching philosophy centres around creating an engaging and inclusive learning environment that fosters critical thinking, problem-solving skills, and a passion for lifelong learning. He adopts a student-centric approach that acknowledges his students' diverse backgrounds and learning styles. By incorporating real-world examples and practical applications, he strives to promote active learning through interactive discussions, hands-on activities, and projects.
Research Interests
Dr. Kumar teaches the elective on Consumer Behaviour, Digital Marketing and Marketing Analytics. He has been teaching core subject of Marketing Management.
Home
Work Experience
Close
Faculty
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kumar Shreshtha
Profile Summary
Overall, he has 9 years of experience in the industry and 2.5 years of experience in academia.
kumar.shreshtha@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Kumar Shreshtha has graduated as a Mechanical Engineer from Malviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur. He pursued his MBA from XLRI, Jamshedpur (GMP), with a special focus on marketing area for a year. He worked in senior management roles after his MBA for 3 years.
School of Business
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Every class starts with a revision of the previous one. Regular quizzes are conducted to put the students on their toes. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Prof Kumar has a mix of experience in Academia and Industry. Before joining UPES, Prof. Kumar worked as an assistant professor at Vijay Patil School of Management (DY Patil University, Navi Mumbai).  Prior to his PhD from IIM Calcutta, he worked with Tega Industries as Senior Manager of business development and sales in India. He worked for Essar Steel Ltd for 6 years after his mechanical engineer degree from MNIT Jaipur. He worked on projects, operations, and sales functions at Essar Steel.
After 9 years of industrial experience in different roles and functions, Prof Kumar delved into academia and pursued PhD from IIM Calcutta on “informal markets” in the Marketing area and successfully completed it. In June 2022, he started his career as an academic. Prof Kumar has attended three reputed international conferences (one offline and two online) in the field of marketing and published a case study and a book chapter with Springer.
Dr. Kumar has an interest in macromarketing and informal markets. He will be submitting papers related to these areas in top journals soon.
Teaching Philosophy