aprasad@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Dr. Ajay Prasad
His research interests are in Security and Digital Forensics and security issues in IoT.  Modelling and Simulation, Computer Systems, Security Systems, Parallel and Distributed Systems, Grid Systems, Cloud Computing are his major interest areas. However, recent interests expanded to IoT and AIML.
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Ajay Prasad bears diversified personal attributes in Academics over the past 22 years and has been contributing significantly as a multi-faceted personality with his vivid active roles as a Researcher, an Academician demonstrating his abilities to deliver for the Undergraduates, Postgraduates, and Doctorate students, in a much organized and focused manner by sincerely following the practices of Outcome-Based Modern Teaching Methodologies. He specializes in Computer Architecture, Simulation and Modelling, Network/Data Security Principles, System Programming, Cloud Systems, Compilers, Digital Forensics. In his academic career he has been in various leadership roles, including HoD for more than 10 years at various places. He has contributed to several different MOOC courses at the state/national level. He is a panellist in Cyber Cell Uttarakhand India. He is a regular contributor to the society through conduct of Cyber-Awareness Seminars and Key-note Speaker for government agencies like STF (Cyber Police), DITAC for the Uttarakhand Govt, and as a Member, Uttarakhand Police Digital Volunteers.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Computer Architecture, Simulation and Modelling, Network/Data Security Principles, System Programming, Cloud Systems, Compilers, and Digital Forensics.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Ajay believes in following the practices of Outcome-Based Modern Teaching Methodologies.
As far as Research areas are concerned 5 PhD scholars have been awarded their PhDs under his supervision. He has authored several technical papers, which have been published in various International Journals and Conferences. Dr. Prasad has been Reviewer in many International Journals and Conferences. He has been highly instrumental in organizing many International Conferences including the in-house “Next Generation Computing Technologies (NGCT)” in UPES, since the year 2015. He has presented several invited talks and served as Session-Chair/Co-chair in several National and International Conferences and Workshops. He is a section editor in the Peer Reviewed International Scopus Journal, “Space and Culture, India (SACI)”. He has also contributed as the author of several book chapters. His book on Digital Forensics has been adopted as a textbook at various open universities across India.
He has more than 21 years of experience in faculty positions at reputed institutions with substantial industrial exposure. In the early part of his career, he had been part of development teams in the industry working on database applications in the banking sector. During his academic tenure he has been in profiles like Head, Department of Computer Applications, School of Computer Science and Engineering, UPES, Head, Department of Cyber Platforms, School of Computer Science and Engineering, UPES, ABET/NAAC incharge at SoCS UPES, ABET Departmental representative at Sharda University, Board of Studies Member at Sharda University, GH Raisoni University, UPES and Sir Padampat Singhania University. Head IT Support (Sir Padampat Singhania University), Incharge of MCA admissions (Mody Institute of Technology and Science), Cultural Incharge (Gyan Vihar School of Engineering and Technology).
Profile Summary
Contact
Dr Ajay has received Best Paper Award, by the Department of Electronics Engineering, A.M.U And a Letter of appreciation by Cyber Police (STF) Uttarakhand Govt for his contributions towards cyber security awareness.
Teaching Philosophy