Research Interests
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo has received his doctoral degree from the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (I.I.T. Roorkee) with his research focusing on the structural application of the recycled aggregate concrete, particularly in flat-plate structures. Dr. Sahoo has consistently contributed to advancing the frontiers of knowledge in his field with his several publications in international journal of high repute and in conferences. Dr. Sahoo has also worked as a research associate in the Civil Engineering Department of the I.I.T. Roorkee on a project sponsored by the Hindustan Zinc Ltd reflecting his practical expertise and collaborative spirit. Dr. Sahoo has also hands-on experience on evaluation of structural integrity using non-destructive test methods.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Teaching Philosophy
Sustainability
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo has been honoured with prestigious MHRD fellowship in his Postgraduate and Doctoral studies.
Close
Dr. Soumyaranjan Sahoo
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo has joined the UPES as an assistant professor in the Civil Engineering Department in August, 2023 and prior to his current role, he worked as research associate and research assistant in the Civil Engineering Department of the I.I.T. Roorkee.
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo is actively involved in supervising a group of M.Tech. Structural Engineering students and B.Tech. Civil Engineering students in their project work.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo’s teaching philosophy centres around integrating theoretical knowledge with practical application. By incorporating real-world examples and encouraging hands-on experiences, Dr. Sahoo aims to endow students with the skills and critical thinking ability that is needed for innovative and sustainable solutions in the field of Civil Engineering. His approach transcends traditional boundaries, empowering students to embrace challenges and excel in the evolving landscape of structural engineering.
Dr. Saumyaranjan Sahoo’s research intertest encompass construction materials, sustainable concrete, recycled aggregate concrete, fibre-reinforced concrete, reinforced concrete structures, non-destructive testing.
saumyaranjan.sahoo@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Concrete Technology, Structural Engineering, Prestressed Concrete, Design of Concrete Structures, Design of Steel Structures.