Jeeten has taught introductory courses on Microeconomics and Macroeconomics at the undergraduate level. Additionally, he has taught upper-level undergraduate courses such as Development Economics, Econometrics, Labor Economics, Managerial Economics, and Financial Economics.
Jeeten is an experienced faculty member who has held teaching positions in India and abroad. Prior to joining UPES, he was a faculty member in the School of Humanities and Liberal Arts at DIT University Dehradun, and in the Economics Department at Union College, New York. During his PhD, he has also worked as a part-time teaching instructor at Southern Illinois University Carbondale.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Jeeten is interested in applied microeconometrics research topics. Currently, he is working on areas related to women empowerment, women and child health, and epidemiology. He is also interested in topics related to domestic trade and regional wages.
Close
Jeeten Krishna Giri
Faculty
, and
Jeeten has published research papers in reputable journals and presented his research at national and international conferences. He has also reviewed journal articles for
Regional Science Policy & Practice
As a teacher, Jeeten attempts to provide an environment where students can freely express themselves and develop their intellect. He adopts a flexible teaching style to accommodate the differential learning abilities of students. Jeeten often organizes study groups to encourage interaction and teamwork, which helps build a positive rapport and respect among students.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
,
.
Jeeten Krishna Giri completed his Ph.D. from Southern Illinois University Carbondale. He has done his MSc. and B.Sc. degrees in economics from University of Calcutta. Jeeten is an applied economist specializing in international trade and development economics. He works mainly with household survey data and employs structural estimation methods and quasi-experimental techniques to assess policy-relevant research questions. He has extensive teaching experience in higher education both at national and international institutions.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Contact
Economics & Human Biology
jeeten.giri@ddn.upes.ac.in
During his PhD, Jeeten received the Best Student Teacher of the Year award in 2017 and the Thomas and Chany Chung Endowed Scholarship in 2018.
Teaching Philosophy
Economics Bulletin