Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
atharvar.bhide@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Dr. Bhide has an experience in teaching Dosage form design and Pharmaceutical Formulations. He work explores how different factors, such as drug properties and patient needs, shape the development and optimization of these systems. Additionally, he examines the role of both regulatory frameworks and ethical considerations in influencing the success and implementation of innovative drug delivery methods.
Faculty
Evaluation of Pharmacokinetics, Biodistribution, and Antimalarial Efficacy of Artemether-Loaded Polymeric Nanorods
Scholarly Activities
Fabrication and evaluation of artemether loaded polymeric nanorods obtained by mechanical stretching of nanospheres
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, Dr. Bhide completed his Ph.D. from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani. His thesis entitled ‘Long-acting Polymeric Nanospheres and Nanorods for Efficient Delivery of Antimalarial Drugs’. There, he was extensively involved in the preparation of long-acting nanoformulations, their in vitro and pre-clinical evaluation, development of analytical and bioanalytical methods, and scientific writing.
Dr. Bhide believes that effective teaching requires creating an engaging and supportive environment that fosters active student learning. He incorporates a blended learning approach, integrating elements such as pre-class assignments where students review key concepts and relevant literature in pharmaceutics. This preparatory work is assessed through brief quizzes, enabling class time to focus on practical, hands-on activities. By solving real-world problems and analysing actual research data, students develop a deeper understanding and are encouraged to transition from theoretical knowledge to expert application in their field.
Nanoparticles | Nanorods | Malaria | Long-acting formulations | Drug delivery |
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Assistant Professor
A sensitive RP-HPLC method for estimation of artemether from polymeric nanoparticles after pre-column acid treatment using UV-visible detector
Contact
Dr. Bhide worked on a DST-SERB funded project as a Junior Research Fellow (JRF) from 2019 to 2022. During his Ph.D., he focused extensively on the development and characterization of long-acting polymeric nanospheres and nanorods for the efficient delivery of antimalarial drugs. Some of his research publications are listed below.
Dr. Bhide is a recent Ph.D. graduate specializing in drug delivery. His research focuses on the preparation and preclinical evaluation of innovative drug formulations. With additional expertise in analytical and bioanalytical method development, he has contributed to advancing robust and precise techniques for pharmaceutical analysis. His work aims to enhance drug delivery systems' effectiveness and safety, addressing critical challenges in therapeutic development.
Dr. Bhide qualified national level entrance exam GPAT 2017. He received the ‘Best Oral Presentation’ award at the 3rd National Biomedical Research Competition in 2021, organized by the Society of Young Biomedical Scientists, India. He was also honoured with the ‘Best Poster Award’ on Research Scholar’s Day at BITS Pilani, Pilani Campus during his Ph.D. tenure.
Teaching Philosophy
Atharva Rajendra Bhide