Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Prof. Prasanthi received the Long Service Award  by UPES in 2014.
Antenna Design I Metamaterials I Implantable Antennas I Low power VLSI circuits I Battery management in EVs .
Prof Prasanthi, has authored three books and guided one Research Scholar in the field of antennas. She has about 25 publications, 03 reference textbooks and guided the student Projects in the Post graduate and under Graduate  level. She has mentored   multidisciplinary student projects to participate in competitions at national level & in around the Nation. She has published a paper on project-based learning in the conference - AHFE held in Washington, US in the year 2019.
prasanti@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
School of Computer Science
Associate Professor
Faculty
Guided  Research Student one and three are on-going.
She teaches the majors such as Microprocessors & Controllers, Electromagnetics’, Antennas , Microwave  Theory & Techniques, Optical Communications, Electronic Devices and Circuits, Analog Electronics(linear integrated circuits Pulse and  Digital circuits ) , Digital logic Design, and Industrial electronics, VLSI circuits  & Optimization methods.
Scholarly Activities
Prof. Prasanthi’ s teaching belief is pointed towards realization of self-responsibility to create a climate that assists and active student learning. She has incorporated some elements of “Design based Assignments & Case study” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class. Intuitive  Group viva is  conducted  for better evaluation in class but instead is used as the foundation for in-class assignments that involve students working with projects which cover in the syllabi in every semester to improve proficient & intellectual Solving skills.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
N Prasanthi Kumari
Professor Prasanthi Kumari is working as Associate Prof in the School of Computer Sciences. She has expertise in teaching- Electromagnetics’, Antennas, Microwave  Theory & Techniques, Optical Communications, Basics of Devices and Circuits and Industrial electronics. Her Research includes  design of Antennas  Design for implantables & wearables, metamaterials and its’ implementation, microwave components, RF design.
Contact
Before joining UPES,  She worked in the College of Engineering in JNTU , Kakinada,  held a faculty advisor position at the departmental level, and acted as a Planning for time table and class coordinator. She worked in two more Colleges also  as Head of the department for ECE. She was a representative of ECE Department to present key of Scheme/evaluation  JNTU university, Kakinada. Joined as Assistant Professor (SS) at University of Petroleum & energy studies in July 2009. Promoted as Asst.  Professor (SG) in 2014. Promoted as Associate Professor in October 2016. She has an over 19+ years of teaching and research experience. Besides this She has a valuable experience in Accreditation, Quality Aspects and in curriculum design.
Teaching Philosophy