After an extensive review of Sonali Vyas’s profile, she was given the recognition of Senior Member of IEEE. She has contributed good research papers and articles at IEEE conferences and seminars.
Faculty Achievements
“Edge-AI in Healthcare: Trends and Future Perspectives “, CRC Press, Taylor & Francis
Dr. Sonali Vyas
The recognition of rising researchers and intellectuals as Leading Professors 2023 is prominently featured in the esteemed magazine Business Talkz. This recognition holds global significance, considering the magazine's wide reach and high demand. Business Talkz is a universal platform with a distinct focus on presenting young entrepreneurs to the world. The magazine is dedicated to sharing insightful articles covering a range of topics including Cyber Security, Hacking News, Technology News, World News, and Startup News. This achievement highlights the remarkable accomplishments of these individuals in the field and showcases their contributions to various domains on a worldwide stage.
Universal Inovators Leadership International Awards (2022)
This is an edited book published by CRC, Taylor & Francis. The book provides comprehensive research ideas about Edge-AI technology that can assist doctors in making better data-driven decisions. It provides insights for improving the healthcare industry by examining future trends, simplifying decision making and investigating structured and unstructured data. It contains 17 chapters by researchers, academicians, and industry experts from various countries.
Home
Dr. Sonali Vyas - Achievement
International UI Awards is to honour the determined effort and achievements of Changemakers who have made their performance and innovative excellence in their respective field. It is a very special and unique set-up; it involves International Excellence awards in various categories. International UI Awards create worldwide recognition and reserve their own space in Society for the winning profiles. The Young Researcher Award category is for those researchers who constantly worked hard to grow their research in their designated areas
Close
School of Computer Science
Eligibility Criteria