Dr. Gaur emphasizes the importance of logical thinking, objective questioning, and rational problem-solving as crucial aspects for developing a strong scientific temperament in students. His teaching philosophy centres on nurturing these qualities to foster overall student development.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Gaur's illustrious post-doctoral career spans over eight years, during which he worked at esteemed institutions such as Virginia Tech (USA), KEK (High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, Japan), and TIFR (Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai). He held the position of a Research Scientist at both Virginia Tech (USA) and KEK (Japan) with support from the US Department of Energy. Dr. Gaur's contributions to the Indian scientific community have been significant, involving his engagement with TIFR as a Jr. Research Fellow, leading to his PhD degree in Physics, and later as a post-doctoral fellow.
In the annual UPES event, Manthan 2023, Dr. Gaur was awarded a certificate of excellence in recognition of his outstanding performance as the Best Debut. Dr. Gaur has sanctioned the UPES SEED grant of 18 lakhs for Belle II. Dr. Gaur received a grant from the European Union project (CSC-LCG) and participated in the CERN School of Computing from 20-31 August 2007, in Croatia. With a grant from the University of Bern, Dr. Gaur attended Flavianet School from 21 June to 2 July 2010, in Switzerland.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Gaur's research interests encompass mega science & technology high-energy physics projects at KEK, BNL, and DESY. He also demonstrates a keen interest in upcoming high-energy physics facilities at CERN, along with High Energy Detector fabrication & operation and software development for distributed computing and physics analysis with Belle II data.
With Dr. Gaur as the IR (Institutional Representative), UPES is now a part of International Mega Science & Technology projects “Belle” & “Belle II”. Physics measurements from the “Belle” resulted in the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physics. “Belle II” Experiment is the second and current iteration of the project with more than 100 collaborating institutions all around the globe including Virginia Tech (USA), KEK (Japan) and TIFR (Mumbai).
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Vipin Gaur
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Gaur is one of the highest cited authors at UPES, boasting an impressive track record with over 18,000 citations, an h-index exceeding 65, and an i10-index surpassing 215. With an extensive experience of more than 17 years, Dr. Gaur is an experimental high-energy physicist who has been actively involved in International Mega Science & Technology projects: "Belle" & "Belle II" at the Japanese national laboratory KEK (High Energy Accelerator Research Organization). The experimental measurements from "Belle" led to the prestigious 2008 Nobel Prize in Physics, while "ALICE" at CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research) in Switzerland also accounts for his remarkable contributions. Dr. Gaur specializes in Particle Physics Analysis, "Belle II" detector operations, and the development of BASF2 (Belle II Analysis Software Framework) and Belle II Distributed Computing GRID software. Notably, under Dr. Gaur's supervision, UPES BTech final-year interns have been offered funded MS (Computer Science) and PhD (Computer Science) positions in some of the top universities in the United States.
vipin.gaur@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
At UPES, Dr. Gaur imparts knowledge in courses on Thermal Physics, Computational Physics, and Engineering Physics. Additionally, he delivers lectures to M.Sc. (Physics) students as part of their training for the NET (National Eligibility Test) examination. Dr. Gaur also supervises Engineering Physics laboratory classes. At TIFR (Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai), he has helped Professor Gagan Mohanty (TIFR) in teaching courses on experimental high-energy physics and computer programming.
Applied Science
With a grant from Niigata University, Dr. Gaur delivered a lecture at FLASY13 from 1-5 July 2013, in Japan. Dr. Gaur delivered an invited talk in Italy during Rencontres De Moriond with a grant from ARISF, France. With a US Department of Energy grant, Dr. Gaur delivered talks at various American Physical Society meetings held at Washington DC (28-31 January 2017), Columbus (14-17 April 2018), Denver (13-16 April 2019) and Brookhaven Forum held in New York (11-13 October 2017).
Teaching Philosophy