Research Interests
Mousim also worked as an entrepreneur in his own capacity handling a few clients across industry sectors and also worked as a Creative Director of Linc Pens & an executive Creative Director of Thoughtshop Communications.
Home
Awards and Grants
Work Experience
Mousim Mitra
Typography. Publication Design. Basic Graphic Design. Creative writing. Advertising Communications. Brand Identity Design.
Close
He delves into typographic work and a connoisseur of different genres of music.
Scholarly Activites
Faculty
Mousim Mitra embarked on a journey in fine art and hosted several shows on watercolor paintings. He has also created a series of self-expressive photographic work done in collaboration with a photographer and models.
Mousim Mitra started his career in Advertising with Response Advertising Pvt Ltd, founded by Mr. Ram Ray, in 1997 and then moved to Ogilvy & Mather and like JWT, WYSIWYG Communications (A sister concern of Response Advertising), Bates 141, Idiom Design & Consultancy and Grey Group.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Professor of Practice
Profile Summary
School of Design
Mousim Mitra’s research interest include typography, fashion communication, individual expression inspired by commercial communication process, advertising, branding and innovative media. Mousim has worked extensively in planning and directing still photo shoots across various applications for a wide range of sectors along with eminent photographers, stylists, make-up artists, models and celebrities.
Mousim Mitra believes in excellence in thought leadership and creating an environment which is conducive to that, which inculcates certain values and thought process amongst students, strengthens their individual approach. His teaching philosophy involves exposing students to real world projects and unlocking the process behind any creative work, to bring clarity in any subject, encouraging creativity and inspiring them to go an extra mile.
mousim.mitra1@ddn.upes.ac.in
Mousim Mitra’s work has been recognized and awarded, including publishing in ‘Brochure Design That Works’ by Rockport Publication, Philadelphia. His work titled ‘Clean Calcutta’ ad campaign won the Calcutta Ad Club Award evaluated by jury chairman R Balki, National Creative Director, Lowe India. Several of his works were selected and ranked high in ‘Grey Global Creative Council’ work. He helped win a huge business pitch of National Insurance based on his campaign idea which also won an award. His work in fine arts has been selected and showcased in a national art event hosted by CIMA Art Gallery in 2017.
He also writes extensively for advertising campaigns and brand nomenclature, wrote an article titled ‘Advertising Communication is meaningful when it echoes the product’ Published in the book, ‘Media in Digital Era: Decoding Journalism, Advertising and Public Relations’ by Prof. Rajesh Sisodia, Amity University. He has also written for a Coffee Table Book on photography titled ‘Soulflight’ produced by Soumitra Bhattacharya and which has been launched at ‘Himalayan Writing Retreat’.
Contact
Apart from serving the industry, Mousim has worked for several media & design schools as a visiting faculty member including ISB&M, NSHM & SNU(Sister Nivedita University)for a decade and attended and delivered speeches at several educational events. He worked as an adjunct faculty member of Sister Nivedita University, Techno India Group for two years.
At UPES he teaches several courses in Graphic Design under Communication Design cluster and manages various activities in day to day basis.
He is  Professor of Practice in Graphic Design under the Communication Design cluster. He is an alumnus of the National Institute of Design(NID), Ahmedabad, with over two and half a decade work experience in the area of Advertising, Graphic Design & Retail Design. He has worked across diverse industry sectors ranging from hospitality, industrial products, corporate communications, fashion, telecom, mobile devices, jewelry, tea, tobacco, lifestyle, consumer electronics, real estate, FMCG & media to education, healthcare, social welfare & public institutions. Prior joining to UPES, Mousim headed the creative department of Grey Group, Calcutta and Idiom Design & Consultancy, Bangalore & Mumbai, where he has worked as a Creative Director and a Design Head respectively, received a few awards and also helped getting and retaining big business accounts.
Teaching Philosophy