2022 Catalyst Award, Anthology Inc, USA
Gaurav Misra’s teaching philosophy revolves around Andragogy, recognizing that adults learn best when engaged and empowered in the learning process. By leveraging gamification, he transforms educational experiences into enjoyable journeys. Through interactive challenges, rewards, and collaborative activities, he creates an environment that fosters intrinsic motivation and active participation. By combining fun and practicality, he aims to instill essential life skills, equipping his students with the confidence and knowledge needed to navigate real-world challenges successfully. He believes in a transformative learning experience that embraces joy, growth, and lifelong development.
Research Interests
As a ‘Fulbright in the Classroom’ grant winner in 2021, he conducted culture-exchange sessions for K-through-College classrooms across the United States. In 2019, he accomplished the multinational leadership program GLIK (Global Leaders for Innovation and Knowledge) and worked on his award-winning Capstone Project in 4 countries (Japan, the USA, Singapore, and Thailand). In 2015, he was awarded Fulbright Fellowship to teach and study at the University of Montana, USA; and was selected for the ‘Distinguished Service and Outreach Award’ for his outstanding service to the university campus and the Missoula community.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
2019 International Recognition, CTAUN, United Nations, New York
Gaurav is passionately committed to empowering students with essential life skills like communication, leadership, and teamwork. With expertise in Business Communication, Professional Communication, and Technical Communication, he aims to cultivate a well-rounded understanding of effective interpersonal interactions in both personal and professional realms. Continuously tracking advancements in these domains, Gaurav is dedicated to integrating the latest knowledge into his teachings to ensure his students are equipped with up-to-date and relevant insights. His goal is to foster confident and competent individuals who can thrive in diverse environments and navigate the challenges of the modern world.
Close
Life Skills | Training and Development | Leadership and Teamwork | Communication and Soft Skills | Education | Pedagogy | Gamification
Gaurav Misra
Gaurav has been training, coaching, and mentoring corporate professionals and university students from USA, UK, UAE, Germany, Canada, Japan, Mauritius, and Dubai. With a career span of more than a decade, he has coached, trained, and mentored about 15,000 youth globally and has conducted more than 100 ‘Train the Trainer’ programs. He has conducted training programs for American Councils, British Council, Fujitsu (Japan), upGrad, NCC, USIEF, Reliance, Eureka Forbes, Lifestyle Mr. & Ms. India, UC Davis, New Jersey City University, Duke University, Virginia State University, CUNY Queens College, UNC (Colorado), MSU (Denver), RU (South Africa) to name a few.
2019 Honorable Learner Award, JAIMS, Japan
Faculty
Presently, Gaurav Misra is pursuing his Ph.D. in online life skills training through gamified pedagogy. The title of his research is ‘The Impact of Gamification on Engagement, Motivation, and Achievement of Higher Education Students Undertaking Life Skills Training via Online Delivery Mode’. Gaurav has made significant scholarly contributions in the areas of life skills education and pedagogy. He has presented his research papers at national and international conferences. His book chapter on life skills has been published in an ISBN book ‘Life Skills – A Gateway to Happiness’.
Scholarly Activities
2023 Catalyst Award, Anthology Inc, USA
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
2021 Fulbright in the Classroom Grant, Fulbright Association, Washington DC
Profile Summary
2016 Distinguished Service & Outreach Award, University of Montana, USA
2019 GLIK Fellow, Fujitsu, Singapore
2015 Fulbright Scholar, USIEF, New Delhi
2016 Youth Representative, United Nations, New York
2022 Fulbright in the Classroom Grant, Fulbright Association, Washington DC
gaurav.misra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Cluster Head
Gaurav Misra is India's 1st ISTD certified life skills educator acknowledged with 'International Recognition' by the CTAUN, United Nations for his innovative skill development initiatives. He is a Fulbright fellow, ‘Global Leader for Innovation and Knowledge’ scholar, and 3 times Blackboard Award winner. He holds Dip TD from ISTD, PGDBM from LBSIMT, and MA (English) from MJPRU. Additionally, He has participated in world-class training programs at Syracuse University (New York), IIE (Washington D.C.), Chuo University (Tokyo), Fujitsu (Yokohama), Temasek Polytechnic (Singapore), Doi Tung (Bangkok), and Infosys (India).
2022 US Alumni Micro Grant, US Embassy India
2020-21 Blackboard Award, TLC Asia Pacific
Teaching Philosophy
2023 Academic Excellence Award, UPES