Neelotpal Goswami
Prof. Neel currently teaches Strategic Management to bring the intricacies of business strategy into the classroom. He aims to showcase how various theoretical strategic come to life in the real world as companies are born, grow, crash and rise again. In an additional stream, he introduces the concepts of digital transformation to students who look to understand their application in new age business.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
neelotpal.goswami@ddn.upes.ac.in
The intersection of strategy, marketing and technology.
Professor of Practice
Profile Summary
Prof. Neel qualified the UGC NET in Management. He has also held scholarships during his academics including the University of Delhi Entrance Scholarship.
School of Business
Contact
From practicing what he preached as a management consultant, to preaching what he practiced, Professor Neelotpal “Neel” Goswami has seen a 360O transformation in his career. Prof. Neel brings in 16 years of industry experience to the classroom. He has extensive experience in corporate strategy, GTM strategy, as well as competitive market intelligence—across sectors/segments such as healthcare, consumer products, pharma/life-sciences, procurement and technology. He has also contributed to thought leadership as an industry SME and a key-note speaker.  He is an MBA from IISWBM, Calcutta and a Commerce Honours graduate from University of Delhi.
Prof. Neel believes “a picture is worth a thousand words”. As attention spans decrease, a teacher’s challenge is to grab and hold attention to explain concepts in class. Students are presented with real world examples—using cases, industry examples, new articles, etc.— to paint a business situation that hooks the student’s attention. This creates an atmosphere to discuss, debate and demonstrate concepts with high retention for future application in real world scenarios.
Prior to UPES, Prof. Neel was associated with EY’s Strategy and Transactions vertical where he worked as an Assistant Director in corporate strategy and commercial due diligences. He has also worked with firms such as Frost & Sullivan and The Smart Cube—ending up with experience of working in categories as wide as next-generation sequencing to baby monitors. With his focus on understanding and solving complex business problems, Prof. Neel has worked with a global clientele spread across the US, Europe, and the Middle East. He has also held P&L responsibilities for large teams across his career.
Teaching Philosophy