Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
School of Computer Science
Cloud Computing I Big Data Analytics I Metaheuristic Optimization I Data Security I Machine Learning
Faculty
ambika.aggarwal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Aggarwal is deeply committed to engaging in scholarly activities that contribute to the advancement of knowledge and enrich both her own understanding and that of the academic community. These activities encompass a wide range of endeavours, including conducting original research, publishing scholarly articles, presenting at conferences, and participating in collaborative projects. She has authored several research papers and book chapters including 5 publications in SCI-indexed journals and 2 SCOPUS-indexed publications. She also has 2 patents granted, 1 published, and 1 recently filed to her name. She has been actively mentoring various student projects at the university, has encouraged, and motivated her students to carry out meaningful research that can be beneficial for the academic and technical society while also aligning with sustainable development goals.
Dr. Ambika Aggarwal holds a B.Tech (Hons.) degree in Information Technology, an M.Tech degree in Information Security and Management, and a Ph.D in Computer Science & Engineering. She has a vast and enriched experience in academics and research spanning over 12 years. Her Ph.D research area is Cloud Computing where she has worked on multi-objective optimization of workflow scheduling algorithms. She has published various research papers (including SCOPUS and SCI-indexed publications), edited/authored various books/book chapters, and served as a reviewer for various journals and conferences. She has three research patents published/granted in 2021 and 2022. She has also delivered various guest lectures, conducted workshops and seminar/webinars at various organizations, including SCERT Chandigarh.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Dr. Ambika Aggarwal has been a part of the academic fraternity since 2011. Before joining UPES, she was working at Uttaranchal University, Dehradun, where she had joined as a Lecturer and was then promoted to Assistant Professor, where she served for 5 years. She joined UPES in August 2016 as an Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) and then was gradually promoted to Assistant Professor (SG). During her previous as well as current tenure, she has been actively and efficiently carrying out various academic and administrative duties contributing towards the organization’s vision and mission as well as nourishing her own skillset.
Dr. Ambika Aggarwal
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Dr. Aggarwal has taught various courses throughout her academic career such as operating systems, computer architecture, discrete mathematics, data security, forensic computing, big data storage, principles of programming languages, introduction to cloud computing, cloud security. However, her expertise lies in C programming, data structures and relational database management using SQL.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Aggarwal’s teaching philosophy is rooted in the belief that education is a transformative process that empowers students to reach their full potential. She strives to create a dynamic and inclusive learning environment that fosters curiosity, critical thinking, and collaboration. She sees herself as a facilitator of knowledge, guiding students in their journey of acquiring new information and skills. She emphasizes active learning methodologies, incorporating a variety of teaching strategies such as discussions, case studies, group projects, and hands-on activities. By engaging students in the learning process, she aims to cultivate their intellectual curiosity and develop their problem-solving abilities.