Dr Jha had been chair of the two consecutive International Conferences on Strategic Communication. Dr Jha has developed a model for the resolution of disputes arising out of data encryption-related issues. He has also published a book on Media Advocacy in RTI titled ‘Advocating for Rights’. During his PhD, Dr Jha develop a Media Advocacy Capacity Assessment Tool. Dr Jha has actively supervised doctoral scholars; two scholars have been awarded PhD in his supervision, two have submitted their thesis. Dr Jha has so far evaluated more than five doctoral thesis. Dr Jha has got published more than 30 research articles and has presented several research papers in international conferences.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Close
Dr Jha received research grant from Indian Council of Social Sciences Research, New Delhi under the Impactful Policy Research in Social Sciences (IMPRESS) scheme in the year 2019.
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr Jha’s previous teaching includes courses on web journalism, data journalism, multimedia storytelling, television production, digital media production, social science research methods, academic writing and communication research. He also teaches Research Methodology to doctoral scholars as part of mandatory coursework.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Amaresh Jha is an experienced media professional: has been a Television journalist with Zee News, News Express, TV9, India News, and India TV and has also produced news for DD News. Dr Jha is Editor (Political and Internal Affairs) of the International Journal of Politics and Media and is a reviewer and article editor of reputed journals published by SAGE, DRDO and CG Network, USA.
Profile Summary
amaresh.jha@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Dr. Amaresh Jha
Dr Jha was previously Head of the School of Media and Entertainment at GD Goenka University where he oversaw academic administration, research, curriculum design and development. Dr Amaresh has previously taught at Amity University (where he led the UG Program at Amity School of Communication) and Galgotias University.
Teaching Philosophy
Political Communication, Media Psychology, Immersive Experiences.
Dr Jha’s teaching philosophy is centered around fostering critical thinking, creativity, and ethical responsibility in the realm of media studies. Dr Jha incorporates a variety of interactive and participatory activities such as discussions, group projects, case studies, and hands-on media production exercises. This approach encourages students to apply theoretical concepts to real-world scenarios and actively participate in their own learning.