Research Interests
Dr. Madhuben Sharma
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Sustainability
Close
Dr. Madhuben Sharma qualified for UGC NET (Environmental Science) in 2005. Recently, she secured funding for a 2-year project titled "Water quality assessment of river Yamuna, Uttarakhand and its exposure assessment concerning water-borne diseases among the nearby community of River" from Uttarakhand State Council for Science & Technology (UCOST).
Dr. Madhuben Sharma holds a doctorate in Surface water assessment of major water bodies in the Himalayan region from TERI School of Advanced Studies, New Delhi. Dr. Sharma boasts more than 20 years of teaching and research experience, with her primary area of research focusing on the application of statistical techniques in water resources engineering, the development of water quality index, and water quality modeling. Her research primarily revolves around the comprehensive assessment and analysis of the water quality of major water bodies in Uttarakhand State, such as River Ganga & Yamuna and Nainital Lake, through primary sampling, monitoring, and pollution source apportionment. Her research findings have been published in leading national and international journals, with a particular focus on Himalayan water bodies. Currently, she is the Principal Investigator for a UCOST-funded project titled “Water quality assessment of river Yamuna, Uttarakhand and its exposure assessment concerning water-borne diseases among the nearby community of River.”
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
With over 20 years of teaching experience, Dr. Sharma employs live projects, case studies, and real-life situations to explain concepts, encouraging logical thinking among her undergraduate and post-graduate engineering students. She is well-versed in various online teaching modes like Blackboard, Coursera, and Codetantra.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Sharma actively participates in various awareness campaigns and workshops, such as River Cleanliness Drive and Women's Health and Hygiene. She is also involved in several departmental committees, including course grid preparation, academic vigilance, and cluster data management. Currently, she holds positions such as Program Lead (Sustainability) and Proctor.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
mbsharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Dr. Sharma teaches a range of courses related to Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE), including HSE lab, Environmental Engineering Lab, Environmental Science, Environment & Sustainability - Himalaya Fellowship, Green Biotechnology, and Pollution abatement.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Sharma's research interests include surface water quality assessment, multivariate statistical analysis, water quality index, water quality modeling, climate change, eutrophication, bioremediation, and occupational health and safety.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Sharma accumulated 8 years of work experience at different academic institutions. She contributed to a MoEF-funded project titled Environmental Health Studies in Faridabad with the Centre for Occupational and Environmental Health (COEH), Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi. Additionally, she briefly served as a Nature Education Officer at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, New Delhi.