Biplab performs numerical simulation of mathematical tumor/cancer models and infectious models in simulator called Wolfram Mathematica. His research interests revolves around the vicinity of real life biological issues that can be translated in mathematical equations and feature some new techniques to solve those equations in order to bridge research gaps. Concepts such as Digital Twins, Fuzzy Logic, Memory Effect, Jeff Phenomena, Tumor Tolerance, etc. are some corners where Dr. Dhar locate his research skills.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Best Paper Award: 13th International Conference on Computing, Engineering and Information Technology. Royal Orchid Sheraton Hotel & Towers, Bangkok, Thailand. WARSE
Dr. Biplab Dhar identifies himself as an emerging sheer researcher and educator in the field of Mathematics (Computational Oncology and Mathematical Epidemiology). He earned his doctorate degree from the National Institute of Technology Silchar, India with his thesis titled “Mathematical Study and Simulation on Tumor-Immune System with Targeted Chemotherapeutic Drug” and a Higher Diploma in Software Engineering from the National Institute of Information Technology, Silchar. Biplab has qualified the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering-Mathematics.
Awards and Grants:
biplab.dhar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Riemann Integration and Series of Functions, Mathematical Modelling, Real Analysis, Linear Algebra, Group Theory, Complex Numbers and Analysis
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Apart from this, Biplab keeps his interest in Mathematics Olympiad as well. He is a lifetime executive member of Assam Academy of Mathematics, Cachar Branch, Silchar. Having said this, he was also selected for Annual Foundation School-II held at Bhaskaracharya Pratishthana, Pune.
Teaching is about inspiring curiosity, nurturing critical thinking, and fostering a love for learning. I believe education should be a collaborative journey where students and teachers learn from each other. Every student brings a unique perspective, and it's my role to create a supportive environment where they feel valued and heard. By connecting lessons to real-life experiences, I aim to make learning relevant and engaging. I prioritize empathy and patience, understanding that each student has their own pace and style of learning. My goal is not just to impart knowledge, but to encourage students to ask questions, challenge ideas, and develop a lifelong passion for discovery. Ultimately, teaching is about empowering students to become thoughtful, compassionate, and informed individuals who are prepared to contribute positively to society.
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor – (SS)
Dr. Biplab Dhar
Contact
Applied Science
Best Paper Award: 1st International Conference on Innovation in Modern Science and Technology. Siliguri Institute of Technology, WB, India
On the onset of post-Ph.D. and pre-UPES association, Dr. Dhar was engaged in University of Science and Technology Meghalaya, India as an Assistant Professor and the same in DIT University, Dehradun, India. He has also been a course coordinator of a Value Added Course in LaTeX during his job period at Meghalaya. Till date Biplab has acquired almost 3 years of work experience including his engagement with UPES, Dehradun, India.
Teaching Philosophy
Biplab has participated in various international conferences for exchange of research ideas and to implement them in his paper to bring out novelty in the field of science and technology. He indulged himself in many FDP’s for the growth of his teaching skills and corporate communications. During his period at DIT University, he happens to be co-incharge of Mathematics Learning Centre.