Research Interests
Dr. Shuchi has taught several courses throughout her career, including Fundamentals of Food Science, Principles of Nutrition, Principles of Dietetics, Diet in Disease, Nutrition Therapy, Biochemistry, Bakery Technology, Meat Technology, Food Processing, Food Hygiene and Sanitation, Clinical and Therapeutic Nutrition, and Mother and Child Nutrition and Dietetics, among others.
Dr. Shuchi received UPES academic Excellence Award for her outstanding work in academics. She received best poster award from Chitkara University Chandigarh for Optimized food formulation through Simbal doda plant.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
Faculty
Dr. Shuchi Upadhyay Tiwari is an expert in Food Nutrition, Dietetics, and Food Science. Her career is focused on clinical practice and disease management through dietary support. She has more than 15 years of experience in teaching and clinical nutrition. She is a gold medalist in her MSc and received appreciation from the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh for her outstanding performance. She worked with UNICEF and the Government Women and Child Development Department under the project on 'Child Malnutrition and Rehabilitation' in Madhya Pradesh. Her research work is on 'Utilization of Food Waste', 'New Food Product Development', and 'Sustainable Food Waste Management'. She is working on probiotic food product development and management. She has published more than 50 research and review papers in international journals with SCI and SCOPUS publications.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
shuchi.upadhyay@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Dr. Shuchi received the Best Poster Award at the International Conference on Malnutrition under MPCOST in 2008 and the Best Paper Presentation Award at a National Conference in Indore in 2008.
Contact
Her research interests lie in formulating and characterizing food rich in bioactive compounds and developing innovative products. She focuses on food waste utilization, production of high-value-added biomolecules, and the development of probiotics and nutraceuticals.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Shuchi was the Head of the Department and led the administrative and academic aspects at Uttaranchal University (NAAC A+) Dehradun, where she served for 4.5 years in academic and research work. She was a Slimming Manager and Nutrition Expert at VLCC healthcare and wellness center in Dehradun and Gurgaon. She served as a faculty in-charge at Guru Nanak College Yamuna Nagar Haryana, Hindu Girls College Jagadhari Haryana, and Arya College Ambala Haryana. She worked as a Clinical Dietitian at Mayo Hospital for 2.7 years, where she was involved in diet counseling, internship, and training of nutrition students. She served as the Program In-charge and Head of the Nutrition Department at Sant Hirdaram Girls College Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, for 2.5 years. She was an Assistant Professor at Ayushman College Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, and served for more than one year in her career. Currently, she is a visiting faculty at IGNOU Karnal and Yamuna Nagar Haryana. She is also an external advisor and BOS Member of Quantum University Roorki, UU Dehradun, and many other universities.
Teaching Philosophy Dr. Shuchi's teaching philosophy is deeply rooted in the concept of "learning by doing" and her focus areas are experiential learning. She has introduced several new concepts in her teaching pattern regarding WWW (what, who, and why) for understanding nutrition. In-class assignments involve students working with experiments and situations. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Dr. Shuchi Upadhyay Tiwari