Polymer Electrolytes, Batteries and Solar Cells.
Dr. Nippani’s teaching philosophy is to create a best teacher-student centric learning atmosphere. The teaching mode may be offline, online or Flipped classroom. Teach and train the students upto the best level. Support the students to develop a strong base in the fundamentals. Apply the fundamental knowledge to initially fundamental level based and then to application based numerical. Motivate the students to present the curriculum-based topics as seminars and group discussions. Reading the content from suggested readings/ reference textbooks, and practice the derivations for smooth understanding of the topics. Practical demonstration of the related experiments as a support in developing experimental exposure.
Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Satya Krishna Nippani
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
nsatyakrishna@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Associated with UPES since August 21, 2008. Before joining UPES, served as a Lecturer from July 2000 – Aug 20, 2008, at A.B.N & P.R.R College of Science, an affiliated college to Andhra University. Worked as a lecturer from August 1999 – July 2000 at S.K.V.T. Degree College, an affiliated institution to Andhra University.
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Nippani is an innovative Assistant Professor brought proven success in implementing technology-based curriculum delivery and assessment tools. Dr. Nippani is passionate about fostering academic development and success for every student with his in the field of Physics education with Twenty-Four years’ experience. He is an enthusiastic professional in consistently achieving classroom management and academic goals. Successfully contributing to undergraduate and post graduate curriculum development and delivery. Passionate about administrative positions and establishing laboratories. Detail-oriented team player with strong organizational skills. Ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously with a high degree of accuracy.
Contact
Interested in multidisciplinary research activities with collaboration with inter or intra departmental faculty teams. Interested in departmental/ cluster/ school administrative activities especially establishing the laboratories.
Applied Science
Dr. Nippani taught various Physics based courses like Engineering Physics and Engineering Physics Lab (School of computer Science), Physics and Physics Lab (School of Engineering). Also taught various courses like Elements of Modern Physics, Elements of Modern Physics lab, Waves & Optics, Waves & Optics Lab, Mechanics Lab in  B.Sc (H) program (Physics – Core & Generic - Chemistry, mathematics & Geology).
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Nippani was  panelist for the event “Design Your North: Ideas to Impact”, held at UPES, Dehradun, on April 29, 2023, A nominee for the best Teacher Award (Manthan 2023), an Appreciation for “Developing Laboratory Demonstration Videos for fifteen experiments and uploading them on BlackBoard”, an Appreciation certificate for the “Completion of Ten years of working at UPES, Dehradun”, Appreciation Certificate for “Developing new experiments in Physics laboratory for Engineering students.