Dr. Udai Pratap Singh is an Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) at the School of Law, UPES Dehradun. He has his doctorate from Dr. Ram Manohar Lohiya National Law University (RMLNLU), Lucknow in the area of International Law. He has a Masters in Law (LLM) with dual specialization in IPRs and Corporate Law from Indian Law Institute, Delhi. He has also done his graduation from RMLNLU, Lucknow. His areas of interest include International Law, Human Rights, Humanitarian Law, and Constitutional Law. He has been a UGC-JRF awardee.
Research Interests
International Law |Human Rights & Humanitarian Law | International Trade Law| Geopolitics
Home
Work Experience
udaip.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Udai Pratap Singh has authored and presented numerous papers on various dimensions of law including the use of force under public international law, dispute resolution under international law, ADR in the criminal justice system, to name a few. Dr. Udai has to his credit papers in many prestigious UGC CARE, and peer-reviewed journals. He has been invited as a resource person at various national and International Conferences. Recently, he chaired one of the technical sessions in the prestigious 6th World Congress on Disaster Management (2023) organized by the Government of Uttarakhand, National Disaster Management Authority, and DMICS.
Close
Dr. Udai has teaching experience of more than six years. Before joining UPES, he had previously worked with IMS Unison University, Dehradun where apart from academics, he also served as an Assistant Dean, IQAC. Previously, has also worked with Amity Institute of Advanced Legal Studies (AIALS), Amity University, Noida, and Sree Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary (SGT) University in Gurugram.
Faculty
Throughout his academic journey, Dr. Udai has taught a wide array of subjects to both undergraduate and postgraduate students. These include Public International Law, Comparative Public Law, Legal Aid, Insurance Law, Intellectual Property Rights, Securities & Investment Law, Human Rights, Research Methodology, etc.
Scholarly Activities
Udai Pratap Singh
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Udai’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that teaching is a continuous process, which involves learning and upgradation of teaching tools and techniques. His teaching endeavors are firmly focused on fostering curiosity and critical thinking among the students. His pedagogy involves a mix of classroom note-taking, peer group discussion, showing educational videos/documentaries, etc. He follows the Socratic method and encourages open discussions and Q&A sessions with students.
School of Law
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor (Senior Scale)
Contact
Teaching Philosophy