rmaithani@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Maithani has extensive experience in teaching a variety of courses. Some of the major courses he has taught include Engineering Thermodynamics, Heat and Mass Transfer, Convective Heat Transfer, Power Plant, IC Engines, Advanced IC Engines, and many more.
Faculty
Mechanical
Scholarly Activities
Senior Associate Professor
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Maithani's research interests encompass heat transfer, analysis of heat exchangers, and renewable energy, particularly solar thermal systems. He is also interested in experimental analysis of thermal systems and different optimization techniques. With over seventy research papers published in prestigious national and international journals, Dr. Maithani has also contributed to various book chapters and holds more than 10 patents to his credit.
Profile Summary
Having a keen interest in research, Dr. Maithani has been recognized with the Excellence in Research award in the year 2019 (DIT University) and 2021 and 2022 (UPES). His passion for research and innovations has also secured SEED money funding for his project titled "Design and Optimization of Solar Thermal Systems."
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Maithani actively engages in research activities with various national and international collaborations. His collaborative research primarily focuses on heat transfer techniques for heat exchangers, solar thermal systems, and renewable energy. Presently, he is guiding two Ph.D. scholars and has successfully guided 14 M. Tech dissertations. Dr. Maithani's contributions include approximately 70 research articles published in reputed indexed journals, several conference presentations, and 10 patents.
Rajesh Maithani
Contact
Dr. Rajesh holds a Ph.D. from Uttarakhand Technical University, Dehradun, awarded in 2017. With more than 17 years of teaching and research experience, Dr. Maithani has delivered faculty responsibilities at DIT University for about 13 years before joining UPES. His research interests lie in the domains of heat transfer and renewable energy.
Dr. Maithani's teaching philosophy focuses on creating a student-centred, practical, and inclusive learning environment. By fostering critical thinking, problem-solving skills, and ethical professionalism, he aims to equip his students with the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in the field of mechanical engineering and contribute meaningfully to society.
Teaching Philosophy
Prior to associating with UPES, Dr. Maithani served DIT University for about 13 years as an Assistant Professor in the Mechanical Engineering Department, Dehradun. In addition to his academic experience, he also has one year of industrial experience.