Dr. Gupta is an academic recognized for his studies in nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear energy law. He has made important contributions to the India-United States Civil Nuclear Cooperation Agreement. He is an active member of the World Institute of Nuclear Security and the Provisional Secretariat to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) in Vienna, Austria. He is invited by the CTBTO almost every year and has participated in the International School of Nuclear Law in Montpellier, France. In addition to his expertise in nuclear law, Dr. Gupta has training and experience in areas such as climate change, constitutionalism, International Treaty Law, International Criminal Law, National and International Security Laws, and human rights laws. He serves as the Deputy Chair on Nuclear Disarmament with the International Council of Jurists in London. Dr. Gupta has also appeared before the Supreme Court of India and the Delhi High Court as a lawyer and provided advice to leading law firms in India and abroad. He holds UGC eligibility scholarship in two subjects: Law and Human Rights.
Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Mohit K. Gupta
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Gupta has contributed extensively through oral presentations and oratory works. He has presented over 100 papers in different national and international conferences and has been a distinguished resource person in various talks on issues of social relevance, including the annual Indian budget and environmental issues. He has authored three books, with his book "Nuclear Non-proliferation and Nuclear Liability: The Law at Crossroad" gaining special international attention for the "persistent by-passer rule." He is the first author in the world to write a monograph on the inadequacies of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which is awaiting revision. Dr. Gupta has also participated in a British Academy-sponsored program regarding India's nuclear revival and the "1-2-3 Agreement."
Faculty
Before joining UPES, Dr. Gupta gained approximately 12 years of teaching experience at various law schools in India, including the National Law University of India. He has been a visiting faculty at the Indian Society of International Law, New Delhi for more than 12 consecutive years, where he delivers lectures on Environmental Law and Intellectual Property Laws. He has also lectured at the Indian Law Institute, New Delhi. Dr. Gupta continues his membership with the Bar Council of India and occasionally appears before the Honorable Supreme Court of India and the High Court.
Currently, Dr. Gupta's research interests lie in the procedural laws of India, including the law of evidence, civil and criminal procedure laws. He is also interested in national and international studies, particularly strategic and defense studies that affect both the national security of India and international security. These research interests are subject to change based on evolving requirements and personal interest.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Throughout his academic career, Dr. Gupta has taught several subjects to undergraduate and postgraduate students. His areas of expertise include Constitutional Law, Law of Torts, Environmental Law, Law of Copyright, Election Law, Administrative Law, Law of Human Rights, Law of World Trade Organization, Law of International Organization, Strategic and Defense Studies, and Public International Law.
Profile Summary
Contact
Dr. Gupta's teaching philosophy is rooted in the belief that an equitable society is built through personal contributions at the grassroots level, especially in countries like India. He believes that professors have a responsibility to create an environment that supports and encourages student learning. He incorporates elements like "fishbowl discussions" in his classes to address social issues and create an atmosphere that fosters academic and personal growth. Dr. Gupta has attended numerous faculty development programs, both national and international, to further develop his teaching philosophy, particularly the mentioned method, inspired by his professors at Jawaharlal Nehru University, including Late Prof. V.S. Mani, Prof. B.S. Chimni, and Prof. V.G. Hegde, who was his supervisor.
mohitk.gupta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Gupta has received numerous awards, starting from his college days to his time at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. He was awarded first place in a debate on judicial activism by the Chief Justice of a High Court. He also won a Quiz at the School of International Studies, New Delhi. As a Gold Medalist in public international laws, including the Law of Treaties, he has been invited to different countries with various scholarships. He has served as a panelist in the first International Conference on International Law and International Affairs, headed by Prof. (Dr) Pushpesh Pant of Jawaharlal Nehru University. Dr. Gupta has also adjudicated numerous national moot court competitions in the field of public international laws, including those organized by the Bar Council of India, New Delhi, up to the semi-final rounds.