Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Mr. Nikhil teaches the domain specific subjects like Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Contract Manufacturing and Outsourcing, Multimodal Transportation which lays the foundations of supply chain for students. He teaches the electives of Fundamentals of International Business, International Contracts and Essentials of Entrepreneurship. He compares and discuss the gap between the subject matter and industry practices and how it evolves exponentially.
Close
nikhil.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Mr. Nikhil focusses on cold chain logistics and how it can help in reducing the overall agricultural waste in the hilly areas of Uttarakhand. The implementation of cold chain is relatively new concept because of the infrastructure and the sparse population. Another area of research is the optimisation of reverse logistics combining the advantages of cold chain logistics with the booming hospitality sector in the state.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Before joining UPES, Nikhil Kumar was running his Logistics and Freight forwarding firm – Deliverers and his hospitality firm – Himalayan cove, a tourism company in Uttarakhand. Prior to his business ventures, He worked with Kuehne+Nagel. Owing to his love for academics, He was also associated with UPES for 10 years since 2014 as Visiting Faculty. He was associated with Chitkara University, Punjab in 2022 and O.P Jindal Global University in 2023 as Guest Faculty.
Profile Summary
School of Business
Nikhil Kumar’s teaching philosophy is based on sharing experiences and live examples from the industry to help students in relating the concepts with the practicality. He supports and encourages students in learning through caselet and class discussions. He has incorporated the “story based” approach in his lectures, discussing the origin or history of concepts and their journey so far. His classroom discussions, caselets approach and study material combined helps students in their understanding and thinking of concepts and comparison with books to real world.
Nikhil Kumar
After his MBA in supply chain in 2011, Nikhil Kumar worked in corporate for a year and subsequently started his logistics and Freight forwarding company in 2012. n entrepreneur, he ventured into hospitality sector as Himalayan Cove. As a Faculty with UPES, his knowledge and expertise of diverse fields like Inventory management, entrepreneurship, logistics and warehousing, freight forwarding, Contracts, Negotiation and hospitality is commanding and helping the students.
Contact
Supply chain I Inventory management I  Hospitality I
Teaching Philosophy