His main teaching areas are Finance and Accounting. He teaches Financial Management, Financial Analytics, International Financial Management, and Derivatives.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Faculty
Dr. Ajit Yadav is an Assistant Professor of Finance at the School of Business, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES) Dehradun, India. He did Doctorate in the domain of Finance from Institute of Management Studies (Faculty of Management Studies), Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India. He has qualified UGC-NET JRF. His research interest is in Standard Finance, Asset Pricing and Behavioural Finance. His research papers are published in Scopus, Web of Science, and ABDC listed journals and he has also edited books published to his name. He has presented research papers in many national and international conferences.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Ajit Yadav
His teaching philosophy is to implant ethics in students by imparting quality education and to encourage students to be responsible citizen. He places a strong emphasis on employing interactive and captivating teaching approaches, promoting active involvement and fostering critical thinking. Dr. Yadav is dedicated to establishing a nurturing and inclusive learning atmosphere, motivating students to delve into novel concepts, hone practical skills, and nurture a fervour for continuous learning. He is committed towards the holistic development of students by focusing on their all-round development.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Contact
ajit.yadav@ddn.upes.ac.in
Asset Pricing, Behavioural Finance, Entrepreneurial Finance, Standard Finance, Stock Market.
Teaching Philosophy
Ajit Yadav is involved in research specifically in Asset Pricing, Standard Finance, Behavioural Finance, Stock Market. He is also working in the domain Entrepreneurial Finance with special emphasis on Start-Ups.
He has around 2 years of working experience in academics, research, and administration. Before joining UPES he was associated with School of Management Sciences, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh as an Assistant Professor in the domain Finance and Accounting. His teaching subjects are Financial Management, Security Analysis and Portfolio Management, Behavioural Finance and Financial Analytics.