Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
Faculty
Courses Taught
Dr. Mangalam's research interests span a wide range of areas, including Nanotechnology, Material Science, Semiconductor devices, Metal Oxide Semiconductors, Renewable energy, Nanoelectronics, Solar cells, Sensors, Water purification, Material Characterization, Metal Oxide Frameworks, and Emerging pollutants.
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Mangalam encourages nurturing of students' innate learning styles, tailoring the course content and teaching approaches accordingly. He places a strong emphasis on connecting concepts to real-life scenarios and practical examples. Dr. Mangalam empowers students to voice their interests in the subject matter, and he maintains engagement through regular activities and discussions.
Dr. Mangalam has taught various laboratory courses covering experiments related to Inorganic Chemistry, including Titration Methods, Complex Synthesis, and characterization techniques like UV-Visible spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction Spectroscopy. For theory courses, he covers topics such as Physics of Materials, which includes properties of materials like conductivity, magnetism, phase transitions, classical and quantum theories, and special materials. Additionally, he teaches topics related to industrial chemicals and the environment, covering Chemical Manufacturing, Metallurgical processes, Fuels, and types of Renewable Energies.
jimmy.mangalam@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
Dr. Jimmy Mangalam is an early-stage researcher with expertise in nanotechnology, nanoelectronics, renewable energy, and water purification. His current focus is on developing materials to target emerging pollutants, specifically pharmaceutical drugs, in wastewater using specially designed nanomaterials and metal oxide frameworks. Additionally, he has published research on solar cells and random-access memories, utilizing nanomaterials for flexible electronics. Dr. Mangalam is also involved in teaching courses such as Physics of Materials, Industrial Chemicals and Environment, and laboratory courses covering concepts of inorganic chemistry for both domain and non-domain students.
Contact
Applied Sciences
Before joining UPES as Assistant Professor, Dr. Jimmy Mangalam served as a Research Assistant and earned his Ph.D. in Chemistry from ICTM, Technische Universität Graz, Austria. During his doctoral research, he focused on developing efficient perovskite solar cells for alternate and renewable energy applications. He also conducted research on the simulation and modelling of OLEDs using drift and diffusion models to investigate electronic and heat transport characteristics for his master's thesis. Additionally, during an internship at the solid-state physics laboratory at IIST, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, he developed a polymer-based random access memory device for flexible electronics applications.
Dr. Jimmy Mangalam
Teaching Philosophy