Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
School of Computer Science
Contactless Image processing I Vascular Pattern detection/extraction/recognition I Un/self-supervised Learning algorithms I Machine Learning I MATLAB I Python Programming
Faculty
swati.rastogi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Swati Rastogi began her classroom teaching career as a visiting faculty at NMIMS Deemed-to-be-University for Image and Video Processing, IT Workshop/MATLAB, Image Processing and Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning. Her responsibilities included giving review lectures (before examinations), preparing and grading assignments, and grading midterm and final exams.  Apart from this, other responsibilities include assisting students and other staff with different departmental activities and providing academic assistance, conducting research and publishing papers in academic publications and answering questions in class, by email, or by phone.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Before joining UPES, Asst. Prof. Swati Rastogi held a Visiting Faculty position at the School of Technology Management and Engineering, and School of Applied Mathematics, Applied Statistics and Analytics at the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies, Navi Mumbai.
Dr. Swati Rastogi has an effective teaching approach. She demonstrates a high degree of interest and passion when teaching the course material. She is open to questions and explanations. She constantly questioned the class during the lectures to make the class more interactive. Dr. Rastogi also acknowledges a student who answered a question properly or did well in a test, presentation, or project. She grades objectively and fairly. When it comes to tasks, projects, and tests, she is realistic. She is available and spends one-on-one time with students.
Dr Swati Rastogi is recognized as an experienced professor with a track record of success in the educational engineering field. Research, education, higher learning, academic research, and science are all areas in which she excels. Professional with an excellent educational record and doctorate in NIR touchless vascular image processing and pattern recognition from the Centre for Research in Nanotechnology & Science (CRNTS) at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.
Swati Rastogi
Contact
Teaching Philosophy