Dr. Girish Kothyari's exceptional contributions in the field of geosciences have been recognized through a series of prestigious awards and grants. He was bestowed the National Geoscience Award (NGA) in 2017 by the Ministry of Mines, Government of India, for his achievements in Applied Geosciences. In 2022, he was honored with the ISES Award for Senior Scientist in Seismotectonic and Applied Seismology, presented by the ISES president. Dr. Kothyari's impact extends globally, as he was featured in the world ranking of top 2% scientists in both 2021 and 2022, a distinction published by Stanford University. His consistent dedication to excellence is further evident through accolades such as the Best Poster Presentation Award in Advances in Earthquake Sciences (AES) in 2014, the Best Presentation Honor at the Indo-US Conference on Intraplate Seismicity in 2012, and the Fast-Track Young Scientist Award from the Department of Science and Technology in 2011. These honours underscore Dr. Kothyari's commitment to advancing geoscience knowledge and his remarkable contributions to the field.
Dr. Girish Chandra Kothyari is a globally well-recognized scientist and a leading expert in Active tectonics and Tectonic geomorphology. He boasts nearly 18 years of research experience in the field of disaster studies caused by earthquakes, landslides, flash floods, etc. His studies also encompass active tectonics, paleoseismology, tectonic geomorphology, and Satellite geodesy (InSAR) studies for identifying locations of active deformation, with a current focus on two active domains in India—the Himalayas and Kachchh Peninsula.
Guest Editor
of a spatial issue (RS and GIS Applications in Crustal Deformation and Neotectonics) of Geodesy and Geodynamics 2021
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Girish Kothyari has delivered a diverse array of courses across UG and PG programs, enriching the educational experience. These courses include "Rocks and Minerals," "River Science," "Structural Geology," "Application of MATLAB in Geosciences," "Application of Quantitative Analysis and Geo-mathematics in Geosciences," "Application of GIS and Remote Sensing in Geosciences," "Geological Mapping Tools," and the utilization of software tools like Grapher, Surfer, River Tool, and Global Mapper in applied geosciences. His commitment to imparting comprehensive knowledge ensures a well-rounded understanding of geosciences concepts.
Close
Dr. Kothari's research interests encompass various aspects, including Structural and Tectonic Geomorphology of Inter and Intra plate regions, Active fault studies of seismically active regions, Paleoseismology, Neotectonics, OSL Dating, InSAR/PSInSAR applications for various geological conditions, and GPR Investigations for shallow subsurface geophysical investigation.
of a spatial issue (SI: Geospatial Technology) of Quaternary Science Advances. In 2021.
Dr. Girish Chandra Kothyari
Faculty
of a spatial issue (SI: Active tectonics and Surface Processes using Geospatial Technology) Journal of Applied Geophysics 2021
Scholarly Activities
Editor board member
Senior Associate Professor
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
girishc.Kothyari@ddn.upes.ac.in
Involved in enrolment activities of the Energy cluster
Energy
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
of a spatial issue (SI: Remote Sensing and GIS application in Quaternary Sciences) of Quaternary International in 2020.
of a spatial issue (SI: Remote sensing and GIS application in Global warming and Climatic changes) of Environmental Challenges 2021
of Quaternary Science Advances
(Elsevier)
Dr. Girish Chandra Kothari believes in a practical approach to teaching that fosters innovative thinking and enables students to develop learning skills instead of merely memorizing facts. He emphasizes a healthy, creative, and friendly atmosphere in the classroom that removes any hesitations between students and teachers, promoting better learning outcomes. As a passionate and well-prepared teacher, he aims to boost confidence in his students by strengthening their understanding of the subject's fundamentals. This, in turn, equips them to observe, collect, and interpret field and analytical data, using up-to-date geological software, and fostering professional acumen in problem-solving. Through proper guidance, field exercises, and practical applications, Dr. Kothari aims to cultivate students' interest in innovative scientific thinking and help them develop a strong foundation in the subject.
Improving research activities in the geoscience division of energy cluster, SoAE, UPES
https://www.journals.elsevier.com/quaternary-science-advances/editorial-board
Contact
Before joining UPES, Dr. Kothyari held various roles at the Institute of Seismological Research, Gandhinagar. He served as a Geophysicist, Project Scientist, and Scientist from 2013 to 2022. Additionally, Dr. Kothyari completed his assignment as a Geologist at RUBACO-SPRL.. He was appointed as a Research Associate at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology for a shorter period. Moreover, he served as a visiting professor at KSKV Kachchh University and was authorized as an external PhD guide by Gujarat University and AKNU, Andhra University.
Teaching Philosophy