Dr. Annapurna’s teaching philosophy is to create the best teacher-student-centric learning atmosphere. She enters her classroom with only one aim that the student needs to take back home the learning that happened that day. She tries to build connect the context with experiential learning to become successful communicators in life. Annapurna uses technology, interactive tools, and multimedia resources to make learning interactive and dynamic.
She has presented her research work at various national and international conferences and published five research papers in international journals.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Close
for outstanding contributions to education and innovative use of Blackboard and Anthology solutions.
Associate Professor
Faculty
2022 Catalyst Award for Teaching and Learning
Dr. Annapurna has maintained a wider research domain within the discipline of language learning and teaching. She has published 2 edited books. Her research works relate to contemporary advertising language and recall studies.
Language | Labs | Conversations | Leadership and Ethics | Inclusivity | Advertising
She has taught courses like Communication Skills, Communication Skills Lab, Living Conversations, Leadership and Teamwork, Ethical Leadership In the 21st Century, and Working with Data.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Annapurna received a Dedicated Service Award at UPES Dehradun. She is part of the Winning Team of the Catalyst Award for the Course Living Conversations (2022).
UPES
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
was awarded the
Dr. Annapurna has 20 years of rich experience in the field of education. She worked as Coordinator of Language Labs from 2014 to 2020 consistently and worked on the planning and execution of activities in the Labs for making the students, better communicators. Annapurna is an enthusiastic professional in consistently achieving classroom management and academic goals. She is successfully contributing to undergraduate curriculum development and delivery. She has actively organized and participated in international conferences and workshops as well. She has had 13 paper presentations at various national and international conferences and published 5 research papers in international journals. She has undertaken major administrative responsibilities during NAAC and other accreditation processes.
Profile Summary
Annapurna has been with UPES since September 2008. Before joining UPES, Annapurna was at ICFAI National College, Rajahmundry, Andhra Pradesh.
PLL Annapurna
Contact
annapurna@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy