Research Interests
His field of interest lies in International Humanitarian Law (IHL), Human Rights Law, Environmental Law, Labour Law, Gender studies, and the sociology of law.
Home
Work Experience
Close
He is a firm believer in the traditional Socratic method with a dialectic approach to teaching. He encourages open discussions and Q&A sessions, wherein students, with pre-reading assignments, engage in philosophic-legal argumentation. He likes to incorporate short documentaries and social commentaries in his lectures and draw on case studies and case laws.
Faculty
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Before joining UPES, he briefly worked at the Indian Institute of Legal Studies, Siliguri as an Assistant Professor of Law, focusing on Environmental Law studies. Prior to that, he worked as a legal coach in a CLAT preparatory institute for a period of two years. He has extensive internship experience with several law firms in India such as Wadia Ghandy & Co., with advocates of the Delhi High Court, and has also pursued internships and project work with Maharatna PSUs like ONGC and SAIL, among others.
Ishan Maheshwari teaches courses like Family Law, which covers various personal laws. He has also taught Labour Law and Criminal Procedure Law. He enjoys analyzing and questioning students on the constitutional-human rights framework under the multifarious personal laws in India, including the conflict between customary and statutory systems of law and judicial balancing of the same.
Ishan Maheshwari
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
He has submitted research papers on topics such as "Women during Armed Conflicts: Defenceless at the Frontier," published in the Special Issue of Jus Corpus Law Journal (Vol. 2 Issue 5) in July 2022, and "Position of Transgender 'workmen' in India," submitted to the South Asian Post-Graduate Law Conference on Gender Rights held on 25-26 November 2022, organized by the Faculty of Legal Studies, South Asian University, India, Maharashtra National Law University (MNLU) Mumbai, India, Jindal Global Law School, OPJGU, Sonipat, India, and University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, University of Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan.
Contact
ishan.maheshwari@ddn.upes.ac.in
Ishan Maheshwari is a law graduate from the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR) University of Law, Hyderabad. He completed his LL.B. in 2015 and later pursued and completed his master's in law from the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bangalore, in 2021 with a specialization in International Human Rights Law. He cleared the UGC-NET in 2021 and is currently enrolled in the PhD program in Environmental Law at Maharashtra National Law University, Nagpur.
Teaching Philosophy