Accounting, Finance & Economics
Home
Work Experience
Teaching Philosophy
Close
pushkalk.pandey@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Quantitative Techniques
Before joining UPES, he has taught at the Vedica Scholars Program, Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management, ISBF (affiliate center for University of London for their undergraduate studies), The NorthCap University, FOSTIIMA, Era Business School, Manipal Universal Learning, Wigan and Leigh, Skyline, IILM, IMD, NBA among others.
Courses Taught
Professor Pushkal Kumar Pandey holds B. Tech (Civil Engineering) and M. Tech (Water Resources Engineering) degrees from IIT Delhi and PGDM (specialising in Finance) from IIM Bangalore. He started his career in the in the construction industry, working as a Class I officer in a Government of India Department for 13 years. He then made a career move and entered academics. For the last 21 years, he has taught, as faculty and as online academic subject expert, management courses, exam preparation courses; conducted corporate training programs; and written course material for management subjects. His areas of expertise include corporate finance, investments and financial derivatives.
Eligibility Criteria
Professor of Practice
Profile Summary
Project Management, Operations Management, Marketing Research, Management of Technology Transfer and IPR .
School of Business
Professor Pandey emphasizes the importance of conceptual understanding over rote memorization of facts, as the latter can become outdated. He views education as a lifelong journey, focusing on developing the ability to learn independently. As the adage goes, a teacher may point a finger at the moon, but the true goal is for the student to look beyond the finger and gaze upon the celestial body itself.
: Quantitative Methods (Statistics and Operations Research), Modeling using Excel, Time Series Analysis, Financial Engineering
Contact
Pushkal Kumar Pandey
- Corporate Finance, Infrastructure Project Finance, Securities Analysis and Portfolio Management, Financial Derivatives, International Financial Management, Financial Markets, Money and Banking, Investment Banking and Financial Services, Management of Insurance Companies, Corporate Restructuring, Strategic Finance, Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, Financial Statement Analysis, Managerial Economics
Professor Pandey began his career as a Class I officer in the Government of India, where he oversaw planning, construction, and maintenance activities within the Ministries of Urban Development and Environment and Forests. He has held key positions in the civil construction units of the Delhi Administration and the Ministry of Environment and Forests, including leading the Meghalaya Central Division.