Research Interests
Charusheel Tripathi
Home
Work Experience
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Awards and Grants
Teaching Philosophy
Close
Being a professor of Political Science, Dr. Charusheel teaches courses on Political Theory and Concepts, Political Thinkers and Philosophy (Indian and Western), Governance and Institutions, Public Policy, Political Sociology, Comparative Politics and Governance, and Public Administration. In the future, she plans to align (though not restrict) her teaching interests with her research interests and design unconventional courses.
She was awarded the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) and Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) in her discipline from 2017 to 2022.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
charusheel.tripathi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Before joining UPES, Dr. Charusheel worked at Amity University and Sri Aurobindo College (Delhi University), in the capacity of assistant professor and guest lecturer, respectively. She started her journey in academia under the tutelage of Prof. Neera Chandhoke and UPIASI (University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India (UPIASI) as a research associate for a Project entitled: The Life and Times of Secularism, and later taught courses, as a teaching assistant, to Masters Political Science students in the Centre for Political Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University. Not far from academia, she also has industrial experience in academic publication (editor-cum-proof-reader) with houses like Rawat Publications (Jaipur).
Contact
Dr. Charusheel is a promising, young academician-cum-educator in the discipline of Political Science. Having acquired a good academic record since high school, she believes in accomplishing better results in her upcoming endeavours. Given her short tenure and experience as an assistant professor, she had made some significant scholarly contributions in the area of public policy and education studies and has plans to design or acquire research projects and grants for the same, in the near future.
Dr. Charusheel Tripathi’s pedagogical philosophy is critical reasoning, accompanied by experiential learning. She begins her semester with insights from a popular self-growth text (grounded on empirical research) and urges her students to adopt any one idea from it. She tries to maintain a class environment where students feel free to question, argue and even fight for the cause they believe in. She tries to instil vociferousness among her pupils, while at the same time acknowledging and respecting the quiet-cum-reclusive demeanour of the introverts within the classroom. She believes that if children feel respected, with their individuality recognized, participation automatically follows.
Dr. Charusheel Tripathi is an Assistant Professor in the School for Liberal Studies and Media, Political Science department. She pursued her Bachelor’s degree in Political Science (with Honours) from Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Delhi University, and then went on to complete her Master’s, M.Phil and Ph.D. from the Centre for Political Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University. She had published her research with reputed journals like Routledge and aspires to do better in the coming future. Besides research, she had pledged her life to quality pedagogy and intends to maintain the standard (with periodic upgrades) as long as she is in the profession!
Political Theory| Political Philosophy | Public Policy| Governance | Education Studies Dr. Charusheel Tripathi maintains a wider research domain within the discipline of political science. Her research works relate to the contemporary concerns and needs of society, through discourses on fairness, equality, liberty and justice.