Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Supply chain management, Inventory modeling, Operations research
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
nabin.sen@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Dr. Sen teaches various courses including Business Mathematics, Business Statistics, Quantitative Techniques for Managers, and Business Research Methodology, to undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Sen’s teaching philosophy centers around creating an engaging and inclusive learning environment that fosters critical thinking, problem-solving skills, and a passion for lifelong learning. He adopts a student-centric approach that acknowledges the diverse backgrounds and learning styles of his students. By incorporating real-world examples and practical applications, he strives to promote active learning through interactive discussions, hands-on activities, and projects.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
He earned his doctorate from Jadavpur University, Kolkata. Also, He completed a Post Graduate Diploma in Applied Statistics from the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata.
r.Nabin Sen has more than 14 years of teaching and more than 7 years of research experience in academia. He taught topics related to mathematics and statistics to engineering and management students in his previous organizations. His research area is supply chain management; particularly he focused on inventory management problems.
Qualified CSIR-UGC-NET in Mathematical Science, June 2011, and GATE-2015 in  Mathematics.
Dr. Nabin Sen
School of Business
Best research paper award received in International Conference on “Standardizing Management Practices: Challenges & Opportunities” (ICSMP-2021) from August 12 – 14, 2021 at Faculty of Management Studies, MLSU, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Dr. Sen has published various articles in reputed national and international journals like the International Journal of Production Research, Journal of Management Analytics, Rairo-Operations Research, Sadhana, etc. In addition to this, he is also involved in the supervision of undergraduate students’ dissertations. Furthermore, he acts as a course coordinator for undergraduate students of UPES, Kandoli campus.
Contact
efore joining UPES, Dr. Sen was at the K L University, Andhra Pradesh as an Assistant Professor in Mathematics. Before that, he worked in various organizations related to undergraduate studies from 2008 as a lecturer and was later promoted to Assistant Professor (Senior Scale). Dr. Sen has been involved in Master’s degree courses since 2019.
Teaching Philosophy