Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
sofia.kausar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Her teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is her responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. She has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into her classes such as case studies, in which students got through the case prior to coming to class where they better understand the legal concepts. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Before joining UPES, Sofia was working as Lecturer in Law in Villa College, Maldives, teaches LLB program for the University of West of England, Villa College campus and also served as Guest faculty in King’s Business School, UAE. She held esteemed positions as Assistant professor at various institutions in India and abroad.
Her scholarly activities include her work on South China Sea and international law of the sea. Her expertise in International law adds depth to her scholarly pursuits, allowing her to explore interdisciplinary topics at the intersection of politics and Law of the sea. She has numerous papers on international law of the sea and attended national and international conferences.
Profile Summary
She teaches international law, criminal law, contract, Muslim law.
Assistant Professor
Her area of research interest is International law, Criminal law and Muslim Law. She co- supervise the students of UWE in their LLM dissertation.
Contact
Sofia is Ph.D in international law. She passionately imparts her knowledge and expertise to the next generation of legal professionals. She has worked in India and abroad as Professor of law. She has attended various international and national conferences and published papers in reputed journals. She has been invited by University of Gdańsk, Poland for a lecture in her area of expertise and also invited by other platforms. Her commitment to advancing scholarship is reflected in her numerous publications in peer-reviewed journals and participation in both national and international conferences, solidifying her reputation as a respected authority in international law.
Dr. Sofia Kausar
Teaching Philosophy