Research Interests
Suvrata has been engaged in imparting knowledge in spatial design domain equipping the students with the relevant skillset to succeed in their chosen field. She currently teaches Material & Technology, Building Technology, Typography and Panel Graphics, Digital Modelling and Visualization and rendering to the students of Interior and Retail Design.
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Close
Impact of Congestion on Commuter Health and Safety, Travel Reliability, and the overall Environment in the Indian Context. Report submitted to concerned authorities in 2022.
Suvrata Yadav is an architect and holds a Masters in Retail Design from National Institute of Design. A passionate educator and experienced designer, she bridges creativity and architectural expertise with academic rigor. Her focus lies in creating innovative and intuitive learning experiences. She aims to foster a process-driven approach, emphasizing curiosity and thoughtful solutions that resonate with individuals. An active member of the design community, contributing to various academic platforms and engaging in industry collaborations.
Faculty
Collaborated on interdisciplinary projects involving production process optimization.
Scholarly Activities
Led workshops on basic design and skill development for artisans in working with bamboo and visual merchandising.
suvrata.yadav@ddn.upes.ac.in
Suvrata Yadav
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Suvrata’s teaching philosophy is rooted in the belief that design is a powerful tool for positive social and cultural impact. She strives to create an inclusive and stimulating learning environment where students are encouraged to embrace interdisciplinary thinking, develop a strong sense of empathy and social responsibility and cultivate a passion for lifelong learning.
Led workshops on Design thinking for teaching-learning process for academic and industry participants.
Profile Summary
School of Design
Suvrata was the lead designer and researcher conducting study on the Impact of Congestion on Commuter Health and Safety, Travel Reliability, and the overall Environment in the Indian Context for a leading transport service provider in India. Currently she is conducting independent research in Investigating Madhya Pradesh’s rich natural and built heritage, aiming to develop community-centric heritage development strategies. She is passionate about exploring the multifaceted nature of design through an interdisciplinary lens, drawing upon her interests in tactile and sensory design, heritage studies, and interactive learning experiences.
Contact
With a diverse professional background spanning architecture, design education, and industry collaborations, her work highlights a commitment to creating meaningful and impactful design solutions. With over 14 years of experience in academic and industry Ms. Suvrata Yadav started her academic journey as teaching associate with National Institute of Design and then later joining Manipal University as a faculty. Prior to joining UPES, Ms. Yadav served as founding faculty at the National Institute of Design Madhya Pradesh. In addition to her teaching role, she held key leadership positions as Discipline Co-Lead for Foundation Studies and Head of International Programs. In these roles, she actively contributed to curriculum development and played a significant part in shaping institutional and educational policies and initiatives. She has led multiple Spatial design projects in the retail sector as well as had the opportunity to design interior spaces and furniture for prestigious projects for the Government of India. She also designed exhibition spaces at events such as the Times Bombay Fashion week for the Government of Madhya Pradesh, apart from conducting basic design skill development training workshops for them. Ms. Yadav has also been actively involved in conducting Design Thinking Workshops to aid teaching-learning processes for educators and industry partners.
Led Faculty development workshops for School teachers on design thinking in pedagogy.
Teaching Philosophy