Dr. Gupta teaches Criminal Procedure Code, Comparative Criminal Procedure, International Criminal Law, Penology and Victimology, Right to Information, etc.
Research Interests
Research
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Associate Professor
Faculty
She is the winner of the Best Faculty Award 2021 at Manthan UPES.
Dr. Kanchal Gupta has more than 17 years of teaching and industry experience. She has completed her PhD and LLM with a specialization in Criminal Laws. She has also completed Masters in Political Science and Masters in Police Administration from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. She is the Program Coordinator of BA. LL.B, 2021 batch and the faculty convener of Legal Aid Clinic. As the convener of LAC, she has organized many legal awareness camps, cleanliness drives, workshops, and training programs. She has completed more than 10 online courses from different online platforms, such as Coursera, NPTEL, SWAYAM, and edX.
She has more than 17 years of teaching and industry experience. Before engaging in academics, she practiced for 4 years as an advocate. She has worked with Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar, for over 4 years and K.C.L. Institute of Laws, Jalandhar, for 7 years. She has also worked with Visionway Immigration Pvt Ltd as a Manager and Legal Advisor. She worked as a member of the Permanent Lok Adalat with District Courts, Jalandhar.
Courses Taught
She has completed a project with MILAT as a co-investigator and is currently working on a project with MNLU, Mumbai, as the Principal Investigator.
School of Law
Criminal Law
Eligibility Criteria
She has presented 32 papers in national and international conferences and seminars, attended many workshops, faculty development programs, orientation programs, training programs, and refresher courses, etc.
Profile Summary
She has 10 UGC publications, 5 conference proceedings, 10 book chapters, and 2 book publications to her credit.
Contact
Dr. Kanchal Gupta
kgupta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Presently, she is associated with the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun, as an Associate Professor.