Dr. Rudhresh’s teaching philosophy is rooted in the belief that effective communication is essential for success in both professional and personal spheres. His approach centres on creating an engaging and interactive learning environment that empowers students to refine their communication skills. He embraces the concept of active learning, where students are encouraged to participate in real-world communication scenarios, both in-class and through assignments. His goal is to prepare students to become effective, persuasive, and adaptable communicators in their future careers.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
rudhreshr@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Before joining UPES, Dr. Rudhresh was at the School of Business, Woxsen University, Hyderabad. He worked as an Assistant Professor of Communication. The broad spectrum of his work profile also includes the position of Program Director at Woxsen University. He has also worked as Faculty in the Department of Learning and Development, Corporate & Industry Relations, Amrita University, Coimbatore.
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Language Assessment I Applied Linguistics I Cognitive communication
Dr. Rudhresh has taught communication for many years to students from a variety of backgrounds and academic programs. His experience have enabled him to adapt his communication lessons to the linguistic backgrounds of his students. Assessment programs and their effects on instruction and learning are the main subjects of his research. To teach the fundamentals of language and communication, he has organised a few camps for the indigenous students in the county's western ghats. He graduated from Bharathiar University with a doctorate in language teaching research.
Profile Summary
University Research Fellowship has been granted for Dr Rudhresh during his research
School of Business
Dr. Rudhresh R
Contact
Dr. Rudhresh has been engaged in a few studies related to language and communication assessment. To comprehend the washback perspective in line with curriculum, syllabus, teaching, and learning, he has been collaborating with numerous distinguished professors globally. His primary area of study is how testing affects instruction and learning. Dr. Rudhresh is now researching the narratives of leadership language and how it affects organizational behavior.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Rudhresh teaches Business Communication