Gupta, S., & Verma, R. (2024). Targeting angiogenesis, inflammation, and oxidative stress in obesity. In Targeting Angiogenesis, Inflammation, and Oxidative Stress in Chronic Diseases (pp. 27-56).
Research Interests
US Patent, “Valerian composition for sleep management”, 20221002782, OmniActive Health Technologies, (Filed).
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Verma has participated in and presented at several national and international conferences. Her publications are as follows:
Close
Dr. Verma carries expert hands-on natural product isolation chromatographic and analytical techniques, such as UV spectroscopy, HPLC, LC-MS, GC-MS, and 1D & 2D NMR spectroscopy. She also has experience in in vitro and in vivo experimentation.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Rohini Verma is a highly qualified professional with 8 years of experience working with Natural products. During her master’s and a Ph.D. degree from the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), she gained expertise in the identification and isolation of new leads from natural sources to fight against various lifestyle disorders. Post her PhD, she joined OmniActive Health Technologies; Pune, a leading nutraceutical industry to work on the development of herbal phytopharmaceuticals complying with regulatory requirements of the EU and the US. She has publications in the journals of international repute, including Natural Product Research and Medicinal Chemistry.
Received fully funded presenting opportunity in The second Russian GxP summit in Sochi, Russia; June2018, Qualified NIPER Fellowship for Ph.D research, 2015; Qualified NIPER Fellowship for Masters Programme, 2013; Qualified Graduate Pharmacy Aptitude Test (GPAT) 2013.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Publications
Dr. Rohini emphasizes the importance of student-centered learning, acting as a facilitator rather than a dictator. She works for students to envision subject based on its practical and real-life use. She prioritizes active student engagement and critical thinking, promoting a collaborative and interactive learning environment. she recognizes the diversity of students and tailor the teaching approach to cater to individual needs. Further, she tries to develop a curiosity for knowledge and a passion for learning.
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
rohini.verma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor
Dr. Rohini Verma
Bhanuse, P., Jha, G., Verma, R., Darekar, K. (2023). Valerian composition for sleep management. PTC, WO2023/139486 A1.
Verma, Rohini, and S. M. Jachak. "Isolation and biological evaluation of demethylcassiarin B from Senna siamea Lam." Natural Product Research (2023): 1-4.
Contact
Dr. Rohini has taught various courses like Herbal drug Technology, Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, Standardization of Herbal drugs, pharmacotherapeutics, pharmacology, global regulation of clinical trials and management of clinical trials.
Dr. Rohini has developed a reputation for delivering top-quality work, demonstrating exceptional attention to detail, and exceeding expectations. Her expertise extends to drug discovery from natural products including natural product isolation, bioassay guided fractionation, phytopharmaceutical standardization, structure elucidation using various spectroscopic techniques and pharmacological evaluation. she has honed those skills while working on exciting and challenging project in industry and during her doctoral studies.
Teaching Philosophy
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Verma was working as a Sr. Expert in Extraction RnD at OmniActives Health Technologies, Pune, 2021-2022.