As an academician, teaching is an integral part of her identity. In her academic career, she developed a passion for transforming the students towards a progressive path and boost their cognitive ability for their developments. She focused on to prove that teaching is just a mutual process of learning, and this is same in research studies where we keep pushing the boundaries of our knowledge. Teaching without research and research without teaching is likely to be much less effective.
DST-SERB’s International Travel Grant to attend American Geophysical Union (AGU) Fall Meeting in Chicago, 2022
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Priyanka.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
School of Computer Science
Faculty
The ISPRS Foundation (TIF) Travel Grant 2020 to attend XXIV ISPRS Congress at Nice, France National
Scholarly Activities
ISPRS Best Young Author Award 2020 for Commission V in XXIV ISPRS Congress for the paperentitled “Maximum Entropy Modeling using Citizen Science: Use Case on Jacobin Cuckoo as an Indicator of Indian Monsoon”
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
ISRS Best Publication Award 2018 for the publication entitled “Species mapping using citizen science approach through IBIN portal: use case in foothills of Himalaya”
Dr. Singh is a part of multi-institutional national project, i.e., Indian Bioresource Information Network (IBIN), in collaboration with Department of Biotechnology (Govt. of India) and Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (ISRO, Govt. of India). She received copyright for her co-work “Geospatial  Soultion for Forest-fire Reporting” for J&K forest department, which benefitted forest staffs of both Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir state. She was a part of India’s first Satellite Telemetry Tracking of Pied Cuckoo, and other major research initiatives.
Data Science, Machine Learning, Citizen Science, Geospatial technology, Health GIS, Web GIS, Mobile GIS, Spatial Database Modelling, Ecological Modelling, Predictive Analytics and Modelling
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Dr. Singh can teach statistical approaches serving foundations of machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms, applied machine learning, interdisciplinary blend of AI/ML with geospatial properties, experimental learning to analyze and solve real world cases, weightage of state-of-art in meeting nation’s sustainable development goals (SDG), focusing on novel algorithm and application development.
Dr. Priyanka Singh is a Faculty of Computer Science at UPES, India. She received her PhD in Data Science from IIT(ISM) and IIRS (ISRO), India in 2019. She received international and national awards in machine learning and spatial sciences. Apart from this, she also serves as Secretary of the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing for Working Group (WG) IV/10 - Applied Spatial Science for Public Health. She conveyed various special sessions and tutorials at internationally renowned conferences.
Profile Summary
Priyanka Singh
Contact
ISRS Young Achiever Award-2020 for the paper entitled “Maximum Entropy Modeling using CitizenScience: Use Case on Jacobin Cuckoo as an Indicator of Indian Monsoon” during ISRS-NG Symposium on 18th December 2020
Before joining UPES, Dr. Singh was at the Symbiosis International Deemed University (Pune), held a faculty position, and acted as a chair of cultural committee. She also worked as a Postdoctoral Research Associate in Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), ISRO in Dehradun, Uttarakhand.
Teaching Philosophy
Dr. Singh’s acquired list of international and national awards and grants are as follows: