Slow and fast learner barrier removal.
Introduction of peer learning.
Research Interests
vkadyan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Prof. Kadyan has won various awards, including UN Influx Trust and Most International Project Awards for his innovation of Braille Slate. He has successfully completed TIDE 2.0-DST, Nidhi Pryass-DST and NEWGEN IEDC grants.
Home
Work Experience
Informal discussions on learning barriers.
Awards and Grants
Virender has led multidisciplinary teams on national and international platforms that help disabled people and farmers. He helped them to improve their life through his proposed solutions. His problem-solving approach has brought him several awards and accolades.
Close
School of Computer Science
Associate Professor
Prof. Kadyan believes that the objective of a teacher is not to teach, but to empower his/her learners. The role of pedagogical development and classroom management framework is to provide constructive feedback, starting with the positives and then moving to the weaknesses that require improvement in the actual Reflective Teaching Learning cycle. His teaching philosophy has the following components:
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Prof. Kadyan worked at Chitkara University, Punjab, as an Assistant Professor-Research in CURIN department. He also worked for NDRI, Karnal, as a Visiting Researcher and subsequently worked as a Project Associate at Thapar University Patiala.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kadyan is recognised as one of the world’s leading experts on automatic speech processing and emotion recognition. He has published various research articles in journals and conferences of repute like IEEE, Springer and Inderscience. He has been granted 7 patents for his proposed innovations. He has guided 1 PhD, 17 MTech scholars and is currently guiding 5 PhD scholars. He also works as a Head of MiRC, and Co-ordinator of Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence research centres.
Prof. Kadyan has been teaching electives on Machine Learning, and Operation Research, besides core subjects like Data Structure, Programming in C, and Python, for several years. He has designed various course curricula and played the role of course coordinator from time to time.
Profile Summary
Speech Recognition | Emotion Recognition | Machine Learning
Contact
Virender Kadyan
Changing seating scenarios like T, jumbled and new neighbours.
Reduction in content delivery pace.
Introduction of different learning activities.
Graphical and creative feedback method.
Breaking the ice with reluctant learners.
Teaching Philosophy