She has a great research profile as per Google Scholar her H-INDEX is 16; I10 INDEX is 27; and 2700+ CITATIONS (SCOPUS, PUBMED, GOOGLE SCHOLAR) with 17 original articles published in peer-reviewed scientific journals, 42 reviews published in peer-reviewed scientific journals, 4 Book Chapters published in peer-reviewed scientific journals, 4 Design patents along 15+ conference presentations at National and International level.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
ORCID ID: 0000-0001-5168-4930
Close
Her research includes exploring the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases, zebrafish neurobehavioral aspects, sleep deprivation, chemobrain, environmental neurotoxicity, and nano neurotherapeutics. She is interested in the identification of epigenetic changes and their role in the progression of neurological diseases.
In 2018, she received the IBRO awardee for attending IBRO-APRC Neurosciences, School at AIIMS New Delhi, India. In the same year, she received the IBRO-APRC Exchange Fellowship funded by the IBRO-APRC, France. She has also received the IBRO International Travel Award for attending “The 38th Annual Scientific Meeting of the Australasian Neuroscience Society”, Brisbane Queensland, Australia in 2018. In the year 2013, she received a Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship (RGNF) for a PhD Fellowship funded by UGC, New Delhi (India).
Associate Professor
Faculty
As a teacher, she believes it is a bridge between students and the existing knowledge. It is the process of making individual students think, analyze, and inculcate a solution-centric approach that will not only help the student but also benefit society. She thinks every classroom has its unique community where she as the teacher will be able to assist each child in developing their potential and learning styles. Her teaching incorporates hands-on learning, cooperative learning, projects, themes, and individual work to engage and activate students learning."
Scholarly Activities
Arti.Singh1@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Arti Singh
She has completed one DST SERB research project (2020-2023) as Principal Investigator on the Pharmacological Exploration of Mitochondrial Metabolomics to Treat Chemotherapy-Induced Cognitive Impairments funded by DST-SERB, New Delhi, Govt. of India (Grant amount 34.25 lacs).
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Dr. Arti is an Associate Professor at the School of Health Sciences & Technology, UPES, Dehradun. She did an M.S.(Pharm.) in Pharmacology and Toxicology and a Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Sciences with a specialization in neuroscience. She received a prestigious RGNF fellowship for doing a Ph.D. She did her Ph.D. in the identification of “Pharmacological interventions targeting mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage in Alzheimer’s disease”. She has also received a prestigious IBRO-APRC Exchange Fellowship for researching “Investigating the role of the Septo-hippocampus in chronic pain”. Her research includes exploring the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases, zebrafish neurobehavioral aspects, sleep deprivation, chemobrain, environmental neurotoxicity, and nano neurotherapeutics. She is interested in the identification of epigenetic changes and their role in the progression of neurological diseases. She has received a DST SERB research grant in the amount of 34.25 lacs for Exploring the role of mitochondrial metabolomics in Chemobrain. She is a reviewer of several international journals and a Review Editor in Frontiers Clinical Diabetes journal. She has published over 50 Research and Review Papers in peer-reviewed International and National Journal with Sci, Web of Science, PubMed, Google Scholar, and Scopus indexing. She is also a member of various Neuroscience Societies such as the Indian Academy of Neuroscience (IAN), Society for Neurosciences (SfN), and Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments-India (SAAE-I).
Dr. Singh has taught several subjects through associations with various organizations. At the UG level, she has taught Pharmacology I, & II (Theory and Practical), Pharm D 2nd & 3rd year she taught Pharmacology I & II (Theory and Practical) and Pharmacoepidemiology (Pharm D 5th year). At the PG level, she has taught M. Pharm Pharmacology subjects: Principles of Drug Discovery and Development, and Advance Pharmacology-1. In M. Pharm Pharmacy Practice she taught Principles of Quality Use of Medicine. She has also taught Ph.D. students the subject of Pharmacology at ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab.
Dr. Singh joined UPES, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, as an Associate Professor in the Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences and Technology. Before joining UPES, she was an Associate Professor in the Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga Punjab (India) from Feb 2019 to May 2024. She also visited the National University of Singapore (NUS), Singapore as an IBRO-APRC exchange fellow for doing her research work in 2018.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy