Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Close
A dedicated and dynamic academic professional, Akansha Rawat is currently serving as an Assistant Professor of Economics in the Global Economics and Finance Cluster, in School of Business. With a strong foundation in economics, she holds an MSc. in Economics with specialization in the socio-economic impact of natural disasters and environment economics. Her diverse skill set includes proficiency in qualitative and quantitative research, data evaluation, and the use of econometric software such as SPSS, GRETL, and EViews. Akansha, with her expertise in advanced econometric tools and statistical methods, has been a valuable resource for workshops on data analysis and economic research. Her leadership and teamwork skills are complemented by her passion for volunteer work, particularly in the empowerment of underprivileged women through self-help groups.
Economic Growth and Development, Energy Economics, Applied Econometrics, Environmental Economics, Sustainable Development.
Faculty
She has been instrumental in teaching various undergraduate and postgraduate courses such as Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Econometrics (Fundamental and Applied), Business Economics, Managerial Economics and Indian Economy.
Akansha Rawat
Akansha bases her teaching philosophy on the idea that it is her duty to create an atmosphere that encourages and facilitates learning for her students. She incorporates elements of "flipping the classroom" into her classes, such as giving students pre-reading assignments to do before class, where they study particular passages from the textbook or other materials. Students take a quick quiz on the subject in class, and the results are used as the foundation for in-class activities that expose them to real-world facts and situations rather than being reviewed during lectures. Akansha assists students in moving from novice to expert-level thinking by utilizing real-world challenges.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
akansha.rawat@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
School of Business
Contact
Along with more than 5 years of teaching experience, Akansha has substantial experience in research, including her work as a Research Assistant in government-funded projects and as external evaluators for prominent NGOs. Her research has contributed to publications and conference presentations on diverse topics, including infrastructure development, climate change, and gender diversity in the Himalayan region. The overall development of society and finding sustainable solutions has been an underlying theme in her research publications in various SCOPUS indexed journals. She has been a key researcher for external evaluation of various projects that aimed to create sustainable futures through equitable and inclusive development solutions. One of the most enthralling undertaken projects was with the United States World Bank team, where she assisted them in a health evaluation program.
Teaching Philosophy