Research Interests
Dr. Rahul Singh Rathore has made significant contributions to research and academia, including research publications in prestigious Q1 journals. He has also contributed to the academic community through book chapters and participation in renowned conferences. Notably, he has presented his research at the First PAN IIT International Management Conference, Organized by IIT Roorkee and other International Conferences by esteemed institutions like Shailesh J Mehta School of Business Management, IIT Bombay, Management Development Institute, showcasing his commitment to advancing knowledge in the domains of management and institutional entrepreneurship. He has actively attended various FDPs, and workshops organized IIT Bhubaneswar, Intellectual Property office India, IPR Chair, NALSAR, Indian Patent Office, World, Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), ASSOCHAM and in association with Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM).
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Dr. Rahul Singh Rathore is a distinguished academic and professional with extensive experience in the domains of Institutional Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Intellectual Property Rights. He earned his PhD from the Department of Management Studies at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee, specializing in Institutional Entrepreneurship.
Close
Dr. Rathore received the Fellowship from Department for Promotion of Policy and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, for carrying out research in Intellectual Property Rights. Dr. Rathore was also instrumental in bagging ICSSR Sponsored Project title Societal empowerment of artisans and rural community through Geographical Indications: Exploring opportunities in Garhwal Region of Uttarakhand, with Grant of INR 12 Lakhs.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Innovation and IPR, Performance Management, Framework Development, Product Counterfeiting, Technology Business Incubation
rahul.rathore@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Profile Summary
Before joining UPES, Dr. Rahul was Working for IPR Chair, IIT Roorkee as Research Officer from the year 2014 to 2024. He has also worked as Assistant Professor at Roorkee Institute of Technology and Stallion College for Engineering and Technology. Dr, Rahul has also worked as Senior Consultant for Xenia Creatives Consultants Private Limited and as Astt. Registrar for Institute of Professional Studies, Roorkee.
School of Business
Dr. Rahul Singh Rathore
Contact
Dr. Rathore firmly believes that effective teaching requires a teacher to adapt to the students' level of understanding, bridging the gap between knowledge and comprehension. He advocates for a holistic approach to education that goes beyond textbooks, emphasizing the power of case-based learning to connect theoretical concepts with real-world applications. He views learning as a lifelong journey, where a teacher must also embrace the role of a learner and an astute observer, both inside and outside the classroom. This dynamic perspective fosters an environment of mutual growth, curiosity, and continuous improvement, ensuring that the teaching process evolves to meet the needs of students and the demands of a rapidly changing world. Dr. Rathore’s philosophy underscores the importance of empathy, adaptability, and practical engagement in transforming education into an enriching and impactful experience.
Dr. Rathore has taught courses at UG, PG and Pre PhD-Level. Startup Valuation, Total Quality Management, Legal Aspects of Business, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Business Models etc.
Teaching Philosophy
With over 10 years of dedicated work as a Research Officer at the IPR Chair, Department of Management Studies, IIT Roorkee, Dr. Rathore has contributed significantly to advancing research in Innovation and Intellectual Property Rights. His interdisciplinary expertise is further enriched by a master’s degree in marketing and human resource management, along with a dual undergraduate background in Law and Mechanical Engineering. He has been instrumental in organizing Training of Trainers Program (Faculty Development Program) International Conferences, National Conferences – Symposium and Seminars Academic Courses-. Online Courses. Dr Rathore has also worked as Teaching Associate at IIT Roorkee for subjects like Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Legal Aspects of Business, Supply Chain Management, Tinkering and Mentoring etc.  Dr. Rathore has also demonstrated his leadership capabilities as Assistant Dean of Student Welfare at Stallion College of Engineering and Technology, where he guided students’ academic and personal growth.