Dr. Jayadev teaches courses on International Relations and Organisations, Geopolitics, Governance and Institutions, India’s Foreign Policy and Digital Policy and Politics. In future, he plans to expand her teaching and research interests to design academic-cum-industry ready courses.
Research Interests
Jayadev has been with UPES since July 2021. Prior to UPES, he worked as Assistant Professor at Amity Institute of International Studies, AUUP, Noida - 125. He started his academic-cum-policy research work at New Delhi-based research organisations – Foundation for National Security Research as a Research Assistant for the project: India’s National Security Review 2015-16. At the Observer Research Foundation as a Research Assistant he was part of the Cyber Initiative.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Dr. Jayadev is an early career, promising, young academician-cum-educator in the discipline of Politics and International Relations. Having keen interest on the intersection of technology, politics, society, and security he is currently working on digital politics, data protection and the impact of emerging technologies on Individuals, Societies and Businesses. He is also actively working to acquire research projects and grants for the same, in the near future.
jayadev.parida@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Jayadev Parida
Scholarly Activities
Jayadev’s teaching philosophy is constructed on critical thinking, experimental, and immersive learning. He tries to maintain an edutainment class environment where students feel free to discuss, question and even fight for the cause they believe in.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Jayadev Parida is one of the founding faculty members of School of Liberal Studies and Media(Political Science program), UPES. He pursued a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science (Honours) from Utkal University, and then went on to complete his M.A. in Politics and International Relations; and PG-Diploma in Human Rights from Pondicherry University, MPhil and Ph.D. from the Centre for European Studies, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University. He was a Visiting Fellow at the Otto Suhr Institute of Political Science, Freie Universität Berlin. He has participated in Track 1.5 dialogues, and presented ideas at international conferences on the issues of technology, security and norms making.
Profile Summary
International Relations | Emerging Technologies | Securitisation | Norms Making | EU | Geopolitics
Assistant Professor
Jayadev maintains a wider research field while looking at the intersection of Politics, International Relations, Technology and Security. His research works relate to the emerging technological concerns, data protection, digital norms making, and to creating a safe, secure trust-based digital order.
Contact
Jayadev was awarded with international fellowships by the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung and Indo-German Project (UGC-DAAD) to visit Freie Universität Berlin (2016-17). He was a recipient of Indian Council of Social Science Research Doctoral Fellowship (2015-17) for his research work.
Teaching Philosophy