Ms. Shrimayee received Gold Medal and Distinction certificate from Hon’ble Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi for the Master of Law-LL.M two-year programme at Rashtriya Rakshta University, Gujarat a university of National Importance.
Shrimayee.puhan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Law of Crimes-IPC, Criminology, Penology & Victimology, Administrative Law, Forensic Science and Law, Specific offences [Women & Children, National Security Laws]
Faculty
M.s Shrimayee has been a Faculty Resource Person for recording E-Lecture for Swayam Prabha [Online MOOC Channel] a government of India and Ministry of Education initiative; she has recorded lectures on various topic of law and social sciences and still keeps on preparing the content for the same. She is an avid writer and researcher in the field of specific offences against children and Domestic Violence laws, currently she is working on Compiling a textbook on Specific laws for Women and Children.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Ms. Shrimayee holds a distinct vision when it comes to academics and the pedagogy followed by her includes discussion and comparative analysis method and following the current trends so that every course is read in a way which tells the student why they need to study a particular course and its practical use after the completion of the course and eventually the program they are studying in. Ms. Shrimayee and her teaching philosophy revolves around understanding the responsibility to create a space that supports and encourages student learning in a holistic manner. She incorporates various pedagogies depending upon the requirement of the law which needs to be taught, she maintains a balance between cognitive form of adaptation of a lecture as well as traditional reading and understanding laws through its various internal and external aids. Using authentic problems and cases helps students move from novice to expert thinking.
Ms. Shrimayee Puhan is an Assistant Professor of Law holding her specialization in Criminal and Security law; National Security Law per se. Currently Ms. Shrimayee is pursuing her Ph.D. in Criminal Law.  Ms. Shrimayee has been actively spreading legal knowledge through various ways; She has recorded Lectures on Right to Equality and Federalism for the SWAYAM PRABHA- Channel no.03 developed and recorded by EMMRC-JNVU Jodhpur recently. She holds a conceptual grip on her subjects and has been part of various academic ventures.
Shrimayee Puhan
Profile Summary
Criminal Law, National Security Law, Criminology and Criminal Behaviour, Forensic Science and Law, Laws concerning women and Children.
Assistant Professor
Before joining UPES, Shrimayee was at Jaipur National University, Jaipur-Rajasthan, held a position of Assistant Professor-Law, before getting into academics she has been practising at Bilaspur High court, Chhattisgarh. She also holds an experience of being an academic trainee at HCl-Technologies-Lucknow office Uttar Pradesh.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy