Research Interests
Dr. Sudipa Nag
Home
Work Experience
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Close
Dr. Nag believes student centric learning which is highly problem-solving based teaching. She understands the importance of classroom learning which connects students to the real world. She tries to make it easier for the students to understand the concepts and involves their engagement in the classroom activities. She also tries to make the students understand the importance of the classroom learning and apply it in their real-life situations to live a happy life.
Faculty
sudipa.nag@ddn.upes.ac.in
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Dr. Nag was working as a Research Assistant in OB and HRM area at Indian Institute of Management Ranchi. There she worked in a project on “Classifying human emotions using thermal imaging”.
Organizational Behavior I Gender Differences I Positive Psychology I Neuropsychology I Mental Health I Social Psychology
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr Sudipa Nag is an Assistant Professor (SG) at the School of Liberal studies and Media. She did her Master’s from Gauhati University in the specialization of Developmental Psychology and Guidance and Counselling Psychology. Further she had done her Ph.D. from Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati in the area of Organizational Behavior. Her thesis title was “Influence Strategies and Gender Differences”. Before joining to UPES she was working as a researcher in various fields of psychology such as, Organizational Behavior, Neuropsychology, Social Psychology, Positive Psychology specially on Well-being and Happiness. She did several projects with other researchers from premier institutes like IIT and IIM. She also worked with several IT companies based out Bangalore and prepare Questionnaire for data analysis based on targeted study for their organization.
Profile Summary
Dr. Nag published her research works in reputed journals like, IIMB Management Review, Psychological Studies, International Journal of Psychology, etc. Also, presented research papers in several national and international conferences.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Dr. Nag is currently teaching Applied Social Psychology to undergraduate students of UPES.
Teaching Philosophy