Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Prof. Atri Nautiyal currently serves as the Director at the School of Liberal Studies and Media, UPES
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Awards and Grants
anautiyal@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Prof. Atri Nautiyal
Director, School of Liberal Studies and Media
: Renewable Energy, Environment, Displacement and Migration
Scholarly Activities
Hands-on activities/demonstration of energy, water, and Environmental conservation techniques for students in schools of Chamoli district in Uttarakhand. Sanctioned Amount - 6.52 lakhs (2021)
Prof. Nautiyal emphasizes on a practice-oriented approach to imparting academic concepts. He encourages his students to engage in critical thinking, analyse information and develop problem-solving skills.
With a combined academic and corporate experience spanning over two decades, he has worked within major North American Financial Institutions such as the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and TD Canada Trust in Canada, as a Financial Advisor specializing in Wealth Management. As an academician, he has over a decade of experience in teaching and research in the domain of economics, finance, sustainability, and displacements.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Areas of Interests
Prof. Nautiyal expertise lies in the fields of development-induced displacement and renewable energy. His research focuses on alternative forms of energy and the socio-economic impacts of involuntary displacement.
Prof. Nautiyal teaches courses in Economics and Finance.
At present, Prof. Nautiyal is collaborating with the Department of Science & Technology (GoI) in the field of renewable energy. He is an investigator in four DST sponsored projects that are aimed at fostering scientific curiosity among school children in the remote areas of Uttarakhand. His research interests extend to development-related displacement concerns in Uttarakhand. Alongside his collaborators, he is engaged in studying the involuntary displacement resulting from the construction of hydro projects in the region. The work focuses on understanding the social, environmental, and economic impacts of such displacements and seeking ways to address and mitigate these challenges.
Outreach Activities to Promote Scientific Temper regarding Sustainable Development among School Students of Uttarakhand. Sanctioned Amount – 36.19 Lakhs (2021)
Profile Summary
Teaching
Sustainable energy workshops for students in remote Himalayan region schools of Uttarakhand. Sanctioned Amount – 13.40 lakhs (2019)
Contact
Communicable Disease Prevention and control demonstration workshops with special focus on Covid-19 for students in schools of Dehradun district in Uttarakhand. Sanctioned Amount – 13.06 Lakh (2022)
Teaching Philosophy
: Economics and Finance