Dr. Jately is a IEEE Senior Member since 2022.
Research Interests
) and a Task Leader in European project funded through ERNANETMED; “Design, Development and Demonstration of a Smart MicroGrid” with a grant of €0.95 Million (
PG LEVEL
vibhu.jately@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
UG LEVEL
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
https://sites.google.com/view/vibhujately/
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Thus far in his academic journey, Dr. Jately has observed that good teachers have been good researchers too. He realized that the best way to develop an insight into a subject is by delivering lectures on it. He encourages students to be inquisitive. To maintain their interest, Dr. Jately keeps on relating the topic of the lecture to the happenings in the real world. He believes that introducing key concepts by intuition and physical reasoning rather than by mathematical rigours is the proper way to teach in an undergraduate class.
Courses Taught
). He is the lead trainer to TATA Power Industry Professionals on “Energy Storage Systems & Grid Integration” at UPES. He is a team member of School of Advanced Engineering Task Force at UPES. He also has been a resource person for Coursera at Anna University under Naan Mudhalvan Massive Upskilling Program on Electric Systems for E-mobility. He has published more than sixteen high-quality SCI/SCIE journal articles and two utility patents. He has also published two books as an editor in the area of AI, Blockchain and IoT applications in sustainable energy.
Eligibility Criteria
Nonconventional Energy Resources, Power Electronics applications in Power Systems
Power Electronics, Microprocessors and Microcontrollers, Embedded System, Power System, Electrical Installation, Electromechanical Energy Conversion and Basic Electrical Engineering
Profile Summary
Dr. Vibhu Jately (Senior Member, IEEE) received his Ph.D. degree from G. B. Pant University, Pantnagar, India. Following that, he worked as an Assistant Professor under United Nations Development Program within the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Wollo University, Ethiopia. After that he worked as a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow for two years at MCAST Energy Research Group, Malta where he was a Task Leader of European H2020 projects. He has over 8 years of teaching and research experience. His area of interest includes power electronics applications in renewable energy systems, control strategies in grid integration of PVs, AI base techniques in microgrids and optimization algorithms in PV applications. He is an active researcher and has published various research articles in IEEE journals and conferences.
https://www.3dmicrogrid.com/
Dr. Jately’s area of interest includes power electronics applications in renewable energy systems and developed various control strategies for grid integration of distributed energy resources, the use of AI techniques for microgrid planning, and swarm techniques in PV applications. For more information please visit:
http://jump2excel.eu/
Dr. Vibhu Jately
Contact
Dr. Jately is working as an Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) at UPES since October 2021. Before joining UPES, he worked as a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow at MCAST Energy Research Group for two years. Prior to that, he worked as an Assistant Professor under United Nations Development Programme in Ethiopia from October 2017 till June 2019.
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
Dr. Jately has worked as a Task Leader in European Commission H2020 Twinning Project: “Joint Universal Activities for Mediterranean PV Integration Excellence” with a grant of €1 Million (
Teaching Philosophy