B.Sc with Mathematics honours from University of Delhi.
Research Interests
Dr. Vivek awarded with UGC-CSIR JRF/SRF fellowship with AIR-25.
Before joining UPES, Dr. Vivek Panwar was at the school of basic science of the Manipal University Jaipur, held a position of assistant professor at the department of Mathematics. He also worked for Akal University Telwandi Sabo, Bhatindha.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Teaching Philosophy
Close
Faculty
Dr. Vivek as an assistant professor in mathematics, engaging in a wide range of scholarly activities is essential for professional development, contribution to the field and career advancement. He has already published 13 research articles in reputed peer-reviewed journals. Dr Vivek has presented his research findings at national and international conferences. This provides an opportunity to disseminate work, receive feedback, and network with other researchers. He is actively participating in organizing sessions or symposia at conferences.  Dr. Vivek has also chair sessions, serving on organizing committees for conferences.  Dr. Vivek is active member of professional societies such as the Indian Mathematical Society (IMS).
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Vivek Panwar is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics at UPES University. With a robust academic background and a passion for both teaching and research, Dr. Vivek has made significant contributions to the field of mathematics. Dr. Vivek has academic history as Doctorate from an international University, South Asian University, Delhi specializing with Integral transforms. M.Sc Applied Mathematics from South Asian University and
Dr. Vivek Panwar
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Integral Transforms and Differential transforms in quantum and pseudo calculus.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
vivek.panwar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Applied Science
Dr. Vivek teaches many courses of pure and applied mathematics for graduate and post graduate students like Differential equations, Numerical Analysis, Probability & Statistics, Linear algebra, Engineering Mathematics.
Dr. Vivek’s teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a climate that supports and encourages student learning. He has incorporated some elements of “flipping the classroom” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class where they complete a short quiz. Quiz material is not repeated in class but instead is used as the foundation for in-class assignments that involve students working with real data and situations. Using authentic problems helps students move from novice to expert thinking.