Indian Council of Social Science Research | Ministry of Human Resource Development | Doctoral Fellowship 2018/2019.
Media, Medium, & Materiality: The Consequences of New Media
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Sahapedia | Research Associate | 2015.
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Awards and Grants
Close
Shatavisha holds an undergraduate degree in Comparative Literature and has a Masters as well as an M.Phil degree in Art History. Shatavisha’s publications have appeared in the Bengal Art Journal, Sahapedia, and Eyeline. The Indian Council of Social Sciences and Research, Ministry of Education, India has recognized her work by supporting her doctoral research.
Critical Thinking and Writing
Faculty
Shatavisha Mustafi, Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Studies and Media, UPES. Mustafi was a Fulbright-Nehru Doctoral 2019-2020 fellow at the Department of Art, Theory and Criticism, MIT where her research focused on the art collection of Chester and Davida Herwitz and the role of foreign patronage in promoting Indian art overseas. Her study tracked how value-making in the ‘artworld’ is based on the economic structures that underlie the practice and circulation of art.
Young Curators Curatorial Award 2016-2017 | Kochi Biennale Foundation
Scholarly Activities
Godrej Cultural Lab National Fellow 2020.
Nehru Trust for the Indian Collection at the Victoria and Albert Museum Travel grant 2018-2019.
Courses Taught
Shatavisha regularly presents her research at conferences and seminars at universities and organisations of global repute. Every year Shatavisha trains students to apply for Fulbright and other grants pro bono. This training involves long sessions of selecting universities and identifying research areas. As a pedagogue, she is interested in writing pedagogies and often assists students with their college application essays. She also works closely with the artist communities offering them feedback and helping them write artist statements or design online platforms for outreach.
Eligibility Criteria
A 100 objects: A Survey Course on the Iconography and Material Culture of India
Election Commission of India | Election and Democracy Museum, 2018.
Shatavisha believes in the Aristotelian philosophy of open questioning and analytics post observation. She brings to class examples from everyday life to have a better understanding of society at large. Additionally, Shatavisha’s classes are *no phone class unless King Kong attacks.
Profile Summary
Construction and Deconstruction: A seminar course on Transmedia Adaptation
Kochi Muziris Biennale | Students' Biennale | 2016
Sahapedia-UNESCO Fellowship 2020.
Shiv Nadar University | Introduction to Modern and Contemporary Indian Art, 2018.
Assistant Professor
Fulbright-Nehru doctoral fellow 2019-2020 at Massachusetts Institution of Technology.
shatavisha.mustafi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Bharatnatyam
dancer and a painter. Her interests lie in the multiple intersections of literary studies, and culture industry, as a non-coercive means to understand diplomacy and soft-power.
Flow India | Museum and Heritage facilitator | 2013
International Museum Expo | Ministry of Culture | Workshops on the curation and the future of museums I 2023
Contact
Shatavisha Mustafi
As a curator and a visual culture researcher, she co-curated the Students’ Biennale, Kochi Biennale Foundation. Her curatorial proposition explored the modern praxis of art making within the structures of the colonial art school education. Her projects leaned towards understanding the various strands of art making within the student community. Alongside her professional commitments, Shatavisha is a trained
Modern and Contemporary Art, Social lives of artworks, Curatorial Studies, Cultural economy, Museums, Exhibition making
Teaching Philosophy