Taxation Laws I Child Rights I Constitutional Law & allied areas.
Research Interests
Shruti Chaturvedi
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Before joining UPES, Ms. Chaturvedi was associated with Department of Law, APS University, a state-government university in M.P. for nearly three years.
Ms. Chaturvedi believes that classroom is the sacrosanct space for building better and responsible citizens. The task of the teacher is not only to impart the black letter of the law but also shape the reasoning ability if the students.  She firmly believes that the student of today will be able to build a better society of tomorrow if equipped with reasoning abilities and empathy.
Ms. Shruti Chaturvedi has received Hon’ble Mr. Justice R.B. Mehta Gold Medal Award for her overall outstanding performance in the post-graduate programme at GNLU.
Ms. Chaturvedi has co-authored a book on Constitutional Laws. She has co-edited a book on Public International Laws. She has various publications in reputed journals to her credit including a book chapter published by Thomson Reuters.
Courses Taught
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Ms. Shruti Chaturvedi is an Assistant Professor of Law at UPES, Dehradun. She has previously worked at Department of Law, APS University, a State Government University. She is also a Ph.D. Research Scholar at the Maharashtra National Law University, Nagpur. She has completed her post-graduation from one of the premier law schools of the country, Gujarat National Law University, Gandhinagar and emerged as the Gold Medalist. She received Hon’ble Mr. Justice R.B. Mehta Gold Medal Award for her overall outstanding performance in the post-graduate programme. She has also been a student research assistant for a project on the Role of Clinical Legal Education in Improving the Quality of Legal Education and Increasing Access to Justice to the Marginalized in the State of Gujarat sponsored by Department of Justice, Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India. She has various publications to her credit by eminent publishers and has also attended several conferences, seminars and other faculty development courses. She has previously co-edited a book on Public International Law. She has also been associated with few reputed law firms in India in the past. Her keen interest lies in Constitutional Law, Taxation Law, Public International Law, and allied areas.
Profile Summary
Assistant Professor
Ms. Chaturvedi teaches the courses on Taxation Laws such as Income Tax and Tax Planning, GST etc. She has also dealt with Labour Laws, Child Law, Constitutional Law, Law of Tort, and other subjects in the past.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
shruti.chaturvedi@ddn.upes.ac.in