Dr. Shukla’s dedication and contributions to the field have earned recognition, including serving as an AAPS Pharmsci360 Reviewer and receiving the CDRI Director's Special Incentive Award for Excellence in Research. Additionally, He has achieved outstanding results in the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Prof. Shukla teaches Pharmaceutics, Biopharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, describing the concepts and practical details important in Pharmaceutical Industry. In addition to that he is also involved in taking lectures on Regulatory Principles such as current Good Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices and Good Laboratory Practices, and Intellectual Property Rights.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Prashant Shukla
Associate Professor
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Prashant Shukla is a highly passionate and forward-thinking teacher and researcher specializing in drug delivery and pharmacokinetics. With a rich background in both industry and academia, deeply committed to advancing the field through innovative research and teaching. Currently serving as an Associate Professor in the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at UPES Dehradun, He has gained extensive experience in formulation development, preclinical evaluation of New Chemical Entities (NCEs), and pre-formulation studies.
Dr. Shukla’s teaching style emphasizes on establishing an engaging and inclusive atmosphere for learning that encourages critical thinking, curiosity, and a love of lifelong learning. He believes in taking a student-centered approach to teaching, adapting his approaches to accommodate different learning styles, and encouraging active engagement. His attempt to make the learning experience relevant and meaningful by combining real-world examples, engaging conversations, and practical applications is extraordinary. He wants to inspire my students to become independent thinkers, problem solvers, and ethical professionals who can make a difference in their industries.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Drug Delivery, Nanotherapeutics, Nanotechnology, Pharmacokinetics, PBPK, Nano-theragnostic, Targeted Drug Delivery
prashant.shukla@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Dr. Prashant Shukla and his team is involved in developing new therapeutic options for inflammatory diseases like Psoriasis and in improving the therapeutic performance of poorly soluble drugs by enhancing solubility and targeting approaches. He is also involved in the communication of the research by writing articles and contributing to the existing pool of knowledge. He is also involved in teaching and mentoring students. They design and deliver courses, supervise research projects, and guide students to foster their intellectual growth and development. He has also applied for research grants to secure funding for his research interests.
Contact
Dr. Shukla’s, work experience spans academia and the pharmaceutical industry, encompassing teaching, mentoring, research, formulation development, preclinical evaluation, and team management. With more than ten years of professional experience, including roles as a Scientist, Assistant Professor and Associate Professor. Before joining UPES, Dr. Prashant was Assistant Professor at Amity University Uttar Pradesh. He also worked for Aurigene Discovery Technologies Limited Hyderabad as a Scientist working on the Pharmaceutical Development of Novel Drugs.
Teaching Philosophy