Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Professor
Prof. Rana leads a multidisciplinary research team and has established research collaborations with international researchers from Germany, Italy, Switzerland, the USA, Japan, and South Korea. Under his guidance, two scholars have completed their Ph.D., and currently, four scholars are registered with him. Dr. Rana actively supports undergraduate students in RISE projects and motivates them to undertake industry-focused research projects. He has published more than 70 international publications in highly reputed journals with significant impact factors: 31.28 (Prog. Polym Sci); 16.50 (Chem Engg J); 14.50 (Polymer Reviews); 10.5 (Compos Part B); 8.0 (Nanoscale); etc]. He has completed DST-SERB sponsored project (54.89 Lakhs; ECR; 2017-2020). Additionally, he has successfully completed DST-SERB sponsored projects and is currently heading DST-SERB (CRG; Dec. 2021-Dec. 2024; 24.31 Lakhs) as a PI, and National Mission on Himalayan Studies (Government of India); Budget: 1.90 Crores INR; (2023-2026) as a Co-PI. Dr. Rana has visited EPFL Lausanne Switzerland (2018), Seoul National University, South Korea (2019 and 2023), and Polymer Competence Center Leoben, Austria (2022). He is also a Life Member for the Society of Polymer Science; India.
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
srana@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Dr. Sravendra Rana
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES as Assistant Professor (SG) in June 2016, Dr. Rana served as a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Germany (2012-2016), and Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore (2011-2012). He obtained his Ph.D. from Konkuk University, Seoul, in 2011.
Dr. Rana's research interests encompass self-healing materials, 3D printing, recyclable polymers, heterogeneous catalysis, carbon nanomaterials, and polymer nanocomposites.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Prof. Rana firmly believes in providing a stimulating educational environment where each student's uniqueness is acknowledged and nurtured. He encourages students to share their ideas, make choices, and explore their curiosity in directing their learning. His teaching pedagogy includes case studies, assignments, flipped classrooms, project-based learning, and the integration of recent research findings to foster an enriching learning experience.
Prof. Rana teaches various courses, including phase equilibria and electrochemistry, chemical kinetics, thermodynamics, polymer science, and nanotechnology. He incorporates principles from physical chemistry and nanotechnology to enrich the understanding of batteries and corrosion. Moreover, he aims to prepare industry-ready individuals with practical knowledge and expertise by fostering a creative and industry-focused learning environment.
Contact
Dr. Sravendra Rana has over 16 years of experience and is a renowned expert with a focus on advanced functional materials, with a remarkable focus on self-healing materials, smart materials, recyclable polymers, and 3D printing. His research aims to develop materials that possess autonomous repair capabilities and contribute to accident prevention. Dr. Rana has published more than 70 international publications in highly reputed journals, accumulating a total citation count of 5100+ with an h-index of 29 and an i-10 index of 55. He leads several research projects supported by prestigious organizations such as the Science and Engineering Research Board, the Swiss National Foundation, and National Mission on Himalayan Studies. As an experienced mentor, he has guided numerous students on their research journey.
Applied Science
Dr. Rana has been the recipient of multiple awards and grants, including DST-SERB grants (Early Career Research; INR 54.89 Lakhs; 2017-2020, and Core Research Grant; 2021-2024; INR 24.31 Lakhs). Additionally, he received a Scientific Exchange Grant (SNF, Switzerland) for a three-month visit at EPFL (2018) and the Brain Korea (BK) Global Visiting Fellow Award for a two-month visit to Seoul National University, South Korea (2023). His Ph.D. was sponsored by the National Research Foundation, South Korea. He was also honoured by The National Institute for International Education (NIIED) South Korea for achieving the best CGPA in his Ph.D. course. In recognition of his research contributions, he received the UPES Best Researcher Award in 2019 and 2020, respectively.
Teaching Philosophy