Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Currently, Dr. Kumar is teaching Geomechanics. Throughout his 9+ years of academic and research career, he has also taught various courses like Engineering Mechanics, Advanced Strength of Materials, Mechanical behaviour of Engineering Materials, Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering, Well Intervention and Stimulation Techniques, Drilling and Production Technology, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Coal Bed Methane, Gas Hydrates and Shale Gas, and Finite Element Method.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Kumar's teaching philosophy centres around a dynamic blend of conceptual understanding and contemporary practical insights, rather than adhering to conventional methods. He adopts diverse teaching approaches that encompass visuals, sounds, language, examples, and real-world applications to actively involve students. While he values multifaceted engagement, he also recognizes the significance of focused teaching, where each class is purpose-driven, and discussions arise from meticulous preparation.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Kumar joined UPES in 2018. Before that, he worked as an Assistant Professor at MITS, Madanapalle Chittoor District, Andhra Pradesh. He also worked at NIT Rourkela as a Research Scholar and Teaching Assistant.
Dr. Harinandan Kumar
Energy
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
hkumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Kumar is serving as an editorial board member of three international journals, such as the Journal of Autonomous Intelligence, Journal of Geological Research, and Bohr International Journal of Civil Engineering and Environmental Science. He is also a reviewer for the Iranian Journal of Earth Science. Furthermore, he has guided UG, PG, and Ph.D. students as a mentor and supervisor for their minor and major projects, as well as research work.
Assistant Professor (SG)
His research interests include carbon dioxide sequestration in deep geological media, gas adsorption/desorption characterization in porous materials, reservoir characterization for coal bed methane, shale gas, and tight gas, blue hydrogen, reservoir modelling and simulation, development of composites using waste material for engineering applications, monitoring and control of air pollution, and application of AI and ML in petroleum engineering.
Dr. Kumar has published more than seven patents and designs, out of which one patent and one design have been granted by the Government of India. Additionally, four research papers presented by Dr. Kumar at national and international conferences (India and Abroad) have been awarded as the best paper of the session.
Contact
Dr. Kumar has completed his Ph.D. on the topic related to coal bed methane technology from NIT, Rourkela, Odisha and his B.E. in Mechanical and Production Engineering from Sathyabama University, Chennai. He is a passionate teacher and researcher with an interest in teaching geomechanics, unconventional resources, the mechanical behaviour of materials, and more. His research focuses on the geo-mechanical characterization of earth materials. He has published over twenty-five research papers in international journals indexed by SCI, SCIE, and Scopus. Additionally, he has hands-on experience in various modelling and analysis software, including AutoCAD, Creo-3.0, Catia, Ansys, Solid Work, GEM Reservoir Simulation, Design Xpert, LISA, Google Sketchup, Matlab, etc. Dr. Kumar has also served as an editorial board member in international journals and reviewed various research papers submitted to international journals.
Teaching Philosophy