Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Prasomee belongs to the OB-HRM domain of School of Management. She is a fresh professional and is working at Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) at UPES- School of Business. She has two years of corporate experience (as Corporate HR) followed by two years of academic experience (in the Organization Behaviour domain). Her corporate exposure across geographies has allowed her to relate the world of theory to the world of practice. She belongs from Kolkata and has been brought up in several parts of the country, making it easier for her to adapt. She specializes in OB, HRM, BE & CSR, Sustainability etc. She is dedicated to advancing the field of OB-HRM through innovative research and high-quality education. She wishes to achieve it by fostering a collaborative and inclusive learning environment, combined with a passion for addressing real-world organizational challenges.
prasomee.sikdar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Prof. Prasomee teaches both core and elective course of Management. She has and is teaching courses such as ‘Organization Behaviour’ (Organization Behavior explores how individuals and groups act within an organization), ‘Business ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility’ (Business Ethics examines moral principles and standards guiding business conduct, while Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) focuses on the ethical obligations organizations have towards society and the environment), ‘Management Information System’ (Management Information Systems (MIS) involve the use of technology to collect, process, and manage data, supporting decision-making and operational efficiency.), ‘Principles and Concepts of Sustainability’ (the need to balance economic, environmental, and social goals to ensure long-term viability), ‘Managing for Sustainability’ (focuses on implementing and overseeing practices that support environmental stewardship, social equity, and economic performance) and ‘Managing Teams’ (Managing Teams involves leading and coordinating groups to achieve organizational objectives effectively).
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Before joining UPES, Prof. Prasomee was at the Techno India University, Kolkata and held a full time Assistant Professor position. Apart from teaching and research duties, she was strongly committed to the extracurricular activities and has been a contributor to the core teams of Hackathon. She was also a member of the event committees such as Convocation, which functioned at the University level. She is an organized individual and therefore has been an active contributor and key responsible SPOC for NAAC and other internal audit processes. Prior to her doctoral studies, she has worked at the Telecom Sector, and has served two critical circles of ROTN and North East.
Prasomee Sikdar
Profile Summary
Prasomee Sikda
Prof. Prasomee’s teaching philosophy in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management (OB-HRM) is rooted in creating an engaging and practical learning environment that bridges theoretical concepts with real-world applications. She is a firm believer that the most effective way to teach complex concepts is through interactive and relatable methods. To achieve this, she uses case studies and draws examples from the world of cinema and sports, which offer rich narratives and vivid illustrations of organizational dynamics. Real-world case studies are central to my teaching approach. These case studies allow students to critically examine how various organizations address issues such as leadership, team dynamics, and conflict resolution.
School of Business
She is a ‘Special Effort’ Member, accredited by Cancer Aid Society - Working for the donation collection and medical aid for the organisation. She is also a receiver of yearly scholarship from Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited from 2007- 2013.
Contact
Prof. Prasomee’s research focuses on inter-organizational relationships, exploring how organizations collaborate, compete, and form strategic alliances. She investigates the mechanisms behind successful partnerships and their sustainability, aiming to enhance competitive advantage and drive innovation. Her interests also include the role of these relationships in global and cross-cultural contexts, examining how organizations adapt to diverse international landscapes. Additionally, she explores hybrid organizations, social enterprises, crisis management, change management, and organizational citizenship behavior, seeking to understand and improve how organizations navigate complex and evolving environments.
Prof. Prasomee  has been a part of conferences such as- Transcendence, (organized by TISS in 2019), 1st Rajagiri Management Conference, (organized by Rajagiri College of Social Sciences and Victoria University of Wellington, 2020), Digital Conference on Social Enterprise- Values and Process (organized by TISS, 2021), International Management Conference (organized by Indian Institute Management, Bodh Gaya in 2021), Doctoral Colloquium on Management and Development (organized by IRMA, 2021), World Research Summit for Tourism and Hospitality (organized by Journal of Tourism, in 2021), Green Leadership (organized by DePaul Institute of Science and Technology, in 2022), 24th Strategic Management Forum (organized by IRMA, in 2022). Her area of publication lies in studying and analyzing the impact of pandemic on the ‘Future of Work’ and also in Organizational Development of Social Enterprises.
Teaching Philosophy