Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
manika.kamthan@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Manika Kamthan is a lawyer by training. She holds Ph.D. on “Women in Agriculture: A Comparative Study of Selected Villages in U.P. and Punjab” from CSLG/JNU. She also holds graduate and post graduate degrees in law from A.M.U. She also did her M.Phil from the Centre for the Study of Law & Governance (CSLG), JNU.
Close
Gender & law, disaster and social vulnerabilities, politics of identity, constitutional law and environment studies.
Labour Law
Faculty
Assistant Professor -Selection Grade
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Dr. Manika’s teaching philosophy reflects my interests in collaborative authorship. Instead of the "full frontal teaching" method of large lectures of autocratic seminars, she prefers student-centric teaching that encourages learning by both students and teachers. She favours classroom dynamics that permit dialogue and foster a degree of student input as to curricula and grading criteria. Dr. Manika encourages students to spend a fair amount of time in smaller groups in which they not only talk and think together but write together. She emphasizes critical thinking and the need to consider law within its larger social, historical, and intellectual contexts.
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Manika Kamthan
Dr. Manika successfully completed ICSSR IMPRESS Project on Law, Gender and Disasters: A Case Study of Drought in Bundelkhand. She has several national and international publications to her credit. She writes regularly on interjections of law, gender and disasters.
Profile Summary
Dr. Manika was awarded ICSSR Doctoral Research Fellowship for two years in 2014-15. She also received Merit Scholarship for securing second position in LL.M. in Faculty of Law, A.M.U., Aligarh.
Gender Justice and Feminist Jurisprudence Prevention of Sexual Harassment Law Legal Research Writing
Comparative Human Rights of Women and Children Constitutional Law
Research Methods and Legal Writing
Protection and Enforcement of Human Rights Migration and EU Legal Issues
Before joining UPES, Dr. Manika was at the Symbiosis Law School, Pune. She has also worked with School of Law, Northcap University, Gurugram and Amity Law School, Noida. She also worked as a Research Assistant in the “University Project of Excellence” on “Climate Change in Western Ghats” in JNU.
Contact
Teaching Philosophy
Law of Sustainable Development