Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
He has taken several courses for undergraduate and graduate scholars such as Reservoir engineering, offshore production platforms, artificial lift techniques, unconventional oil and gas resources, introduction to petroleum industry and drilling fluid and cementation. Moreover, he has also taken laboratory classes for UG and PG scholars.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Himanshu Kesarwani
His teaching philosophy focusses on fostering an environment where every student feels empowered to engage deeply with the subject matter. By creating a supportive and inclusive classroom atmosphere, he aims to cultivate curiosity, critical thinking, and a passion for lifelong learning. Through active participation, collaboration, and real-world applications, he strives to equip students with the skills and knowledge they need to succeed academically and beyond. Ultimately, his goal is to inspire and empower students to become independent, confident, and compassionate individuals.
Energy
Profile Summary
Himanshu Kesarwani is a young faculty who has completed bachelors, master’s, and doctorate in petroleum engineering from the recognized university.  He has worked on the drilling fluid design, cement slurry preparation and testing for oil wells. Apart from that, he has extensively worked on the chemical EOR during his doctorate. He has published several papers in the international peer-reviewed journal and attended various international and national conferences to present his work. He has over 300 citations with 11 H-index and 12 as i-10 index.
School of Advanced Engineering
Assistant Professor
himanshu.kesarwani@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Recently, Dr. Himanshu has received a seed grant of approximately 5 Lac in his early career at UPES. He also received a seed grant during his tenure at Presidency University. He also received financial support from the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) in 2022 to present his work at an international platform.
Dr. Himanshu’s research interest lies in formulation and testing of drilling fluid and cement slurry. Moreover, he is working on the formulation of surfactant mixture for the better efficiency of oil mobilization. Furthermore, he is interested in the nanotechnology application in the oil and gas industry.
Teaching Philosophy
Before joining UPES, he has worked at Presidency University, Bangalore where he was working as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Petroleum Engineering.