Published an article titled as “
Protecting the Health Data of Consumers-Need For an Iron Clad Law In India”
Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Constitutional Law, Administrative Law, International Law, Human Rights and Environmental Law
Awards and Grants
Equal Protection of a Refugee in a Non-Signatory State”
Published an article titled as
a.tripathi@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
– Autonomy and Democratic Governance in Northeast India
with ISBN no 9781003158417 published by Routledge India
Faculty
in
Scholarly Activities
Mr. Ashutosh teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that it is his responsibility to create a environment that supports overall development of the student. He has incorporated some elements of “Socratic Method” into his classes such as pre-reading assignments, in which students read assigned sections of the textbook and/or other resources prior to coming to class where they can participate in the discussion.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
“State within a State-Analysing the Challenges and Issues of Autonomous Councils”
.
in a book
Profile Summary
Published a chapter titled as
Published by
Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab (Edition 2015 ISBN. 978-93-84166-06-9)
in the International Journal of Consumer Law and Practice, NLSIU BANGALORE
Mr. Ashutosh teaches Constitutional Law, Administrative Law, International Law, Interpretation of Statutes and Human Rights
"Intellectual Property Rights and Biodiversity: Analysis of the Interface”,
Ashutosh Tripathi
( ISSN. 2347-2731)
Cochin University Law Review (ISSN 0970-0331), Vol. LXI
Free Trade-Antithesis to Sustainable Development? In a book titled as Conservation,Sustainability And Environmental Justice In India”, Rowmann and Littlefield Publication( ISBN 978-1-7936-1454-4
Contact
Published a chapter titled as, ”
Before joining UPES, Mr. Ashutosh Tripathi was at the School of Law, Amity University Noida. Overall, he is having 9 years of Teaching Experience.
Mr. Ashutosh Tripathi has pursued B,Com & LL.B from University of Allahabad and pursued his LL.M from NLSIU, Bangalore. He has qualified ugc -NET conducted by UGC, New Delhi. His area of expertise is in the Constitutional Law. He has published research papers in journals of international repute. He has also published papers in various national and international Conferences An encouraging educator with an ability to make Constitutional Law and Administrative Law interesting for students. Provide live examples, group activities, and prepare teaching plans that facilitate classroom participation.
Teaching Philosophy