Research Interests
Prof. Lakshmi’s primary interest is in writing case studies, addressing the challenges of Indian business in growth, profitability, people skills, leadership, marketing, and communications. She has collaborated with several faculty in writing and publishing over 10+ case studies – notably at Ivey Publishing, Harvard Business Publishing, Emerald Publishing, and the Case Center. With a strong grounding in business and case studies, she is now collaborating with several faculty at UPES and other institutions on 20+ cases. She is currently leading the Case Center at UPES.
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
subbalakshmi.prabha@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Prof. Subba Lakshmi is an industry veteran with more than 20 years’ experience in marketing, brand management and marketing communications. She has steered wellness and kitchenware brands to leadership in the competitive Indian FMCG market and provided marketing leadership in the Asia Pacific region in the energy management, refrigeration & air-conditioning space. She is an accomplished case writer and case instructor.
Her diverse industry experience prior to joining academia encompasses the B2B industry (HVAC, energy management systems), FMCG products (jewellery, optical, cookware, dairy, health & wellness, and SaaS).
Eligibility Criteria
Subba Lakshmi Prabha
Profile Summary
Prof. Lakshmi believes in the power of Indian brands, and their relevance to the unique socio-economic and demographic of India. She believes strongly in the Case Study method, especially grounded in Indian businesses. She helps students learn the unique challenges in India and apply innovative approaches to solving them. She resources several examples from her own first-hand experience in companies, as well as her interaction with CEOs while writing case studies.
School of Business
Indian brands and their GTM strategies through case studies.
Contact
Prof. Lakshmi teaches courses on Brand Management, CRM, E-Commerce, and Rural Immersion.
Teaching Philosophy