Research Interests
Energy Value Chain I Risk Management I Climate change I Sustainability I Renewable Energy I Power Systems
In an era where the millennials and Generation Z are inclined more towards digitalization, my teaching philosophy entails incorporating innovative pedagogy (applying digital tools in my lectures) and adopting a research-oriented approach toward academic practice. This creates a high-quality professional environment for the students, fostering diversity and inclusivity.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Dr. Sonal Gupta is a British Council Women in STEM fellow at the University of Edinburgh- Institute of Energy Systems wherein she is studying the modelling, integration and optimization of electric vehicles in the power system using open-source tools. Prior to UPES, she worked with big stalwarts like Reliance Energy Trading Limited as a business analyst.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Sonal teaches subjects related to energy derivatives and risk management, Energy value chain, climate change, sustainability, renewable energy, energy economics and pricing. Focusing on the significance of SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) 7 i.e., affordable and clean energy, she teaches courses that help students understand the nuances of the energy business, preparing them for the corporate world and thereby contributing to the nation's social, economic, and sustainable development.
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Dr. Sonal Gupta is an accomplished energy professional and a passionate educationist with an eclectic mix of industry, academia, and research. A result-oriented, decisive leader, a change agent with proven success in conceptualizing ideas and strategic planning. My research involves using data-driven methods to study energy markets and the latest technologies adopted to meet net zero emission targets for the nation's sustainable development. Achieving this goal involves working with diverse students, fellow researchers, and industry professionals committed to creating an inclusive culture that promotes equality and diversity within the research and teaching fraternity.
Profile Summary
Dr. Sonal believes in not only knowledge dissemination but also its exchange specifically in the areas of sustainable energy. For this, she has conducted seminars, events, and webinars. Moreover, she has published papers in the journals of repute. Also, she has represented UPES at international forums such as at the University of Cambridge, Thailand, London and Edinburgh, thereby encouraging international collaborations.
School of Business
Dr. Sonal Gupta
Contact
sgupta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Sonal received the prestigious British Council Women in STEM fellowship at the University of Edinburgh. Moreover, she received a best paper award at the Institute for Global Business Research Conference, April 6-8, 2022, in New Orleans, LA. She has bagged an award of Excellence for outstanding performance in the Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice and has stood second in the college in Under-Graduation and in the batch in post-graduation.
Teaching Philosophy