Research Interests
Dr. Ratnesh K Pandey
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Teaching Philosophy
Close
Dr. Pandey's expertise in teaching covers a diverse range of physics courses, including Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics, Mathematical Physics, Mechanics, Electronics, Waves & Optics, Nanotechnology, Solid State Physics, Electromagnetism, and Engineering Physics. He also offers specialized courses, such as Ion Accelerator and Beam Optics.
Dr. Pandey has received International Travel Support from SERB for delivering an invited talk at the XXVI International Conference on Ion-Surface Interactions (ISI-2023) in Russia. He has previously received International Travel Support from SERB for his talk at SHIM 2012 at Kyoto University, Japan, and a Visitor Scholar Fellowship in 2013 from Michigan Technological University (MTU), USA, for conducting research work at MTU. His research has received significant funding from various government agencies, including BRNS (INR 34,00,000, ongoing project), UGC DAE CSR (INR 1,35,000, ongoing project), and SERB (INR 5,50,000, completed project).
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Pandey has published 30 research papers and has an h-index of 10. As a Principal Investigator, he has also secured funding for several projects. In addition to his research contributions, Dr. Pandey has published conference proceedings and is guiding Ph.D. students. He is a life member of several national/ international societies such as the Indian Physics Association (IPA), Ion Beam Society of India (IBSI), and Society for Material Chemistry (SMC). Dr. Pandey has completed various certification courses such as the Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP) from UPES, Dehradun in Nov 2019 with a 9 CGPA and Virtual Teaching from the University of California, Irvine on Coursera. He has also attended Faculty Training Program by NITTTR, Bhopal and Faculty Development Program on Enhancing Teaching Skills conducted by NIT Kurukshetra team in 2016.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Pandey is an accomplished researcher and professor with a strong background in accelerator-based research, ion-induced material modification, surface nanostructuring, radiation damage, nanoclusters, and density functional methods. He obtained his Ph.D. in Physics from the Nanotechnology Application Centre at the University of Allahabad, India. With over 8 years of experience in academia, he has made significant contributions to the field of materials science and technology, evident from his impressive publication record of 30 publications and an H-index of 10. Dr. Pandey has successfully secured research funding for several projects, including those investigating the radiation stability of tungsten carbide nanostructures for fusion reactor applications, and studies on 2D materials and transition metal-doped nanosheets for supercapacitor applications. Moreover, he is actively involved in the development of a gas sensing system through government and UPES funding. Besides his research accomplishments, Dr. Pandey has undertaken positions of responsibility as a course coordinator and team member for accreditation documentation. Additionally, he also organises international conferences and webinars.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Dr. Pandey's research interests lie in the field of physics, particularly materials science, nanotechnology, and ion beam interactions. He is passionate about exploring the properties of various materials and understanding their behaviour at the nanoscale level. His research involves the application of ion beams in modifying and characterizing materials. Additionally, he has a keen interest in computational methods, such as Density Functional Theory (DFT), for studying the electronic and structural properties of materials.
Contact
rpandey@ddn.upes.ac.in
Applied Science
Dr. Pandey's teaching philosophy revolves around creating an engaging and student-centred learning environment. He believes in empowering students through active participation, critical thinking, and hands-on experiences. His inclusive classroom encourages students to express ideas freely and challenge existing knowledge. Dr. Pandey emphasizes integrating theoretical concepts with real-world applications, and he uses effective communication and personalized guidance to inspire a love for learning and equips students with the skills and knowledge for success in their academic and professional pursuits.
Dr. Pandey's diverse work experience includes being a Beam Time User at the Material Science Beam Line of the Inter University Accelerator Centre, New Delhi, from 2009 to 2015 and from 2021 to the present. He has also been a Visitor Scholar at Michigan Technological University, USA, where he conducted research on small fluoride clusters. In the academic field, he has held the positions of Assistant Professor (2016-2019), Assistant Professor- Senior Scale (2019-2023), and Assistant Professor- Selection Grade (2023- Present) at UPES. Prior to joining UPES, he served as an Assistant Professor at Suraj PG College, Mahendragarh, Haryana, from 2015 to 2016.