Research Interests
Dr. Shaurya Gupta has published various research papers in reputed research journals and attended several national and international conferences.
Home
Work Experience
Close
School of Computer Science
shaurya.gupta@ddn.upes.ac.in
Associate Professor
Prof. Gupta teaches subjects like In-Memory Processing, Stream Processing, and Applications of ML in Industries, Data Communication and Networks. He explores how the credentials and inducements of these subjects shape the learning of students from an industry point of view.
Faculty
Healthcare Informatics I Healthcare IoT I Wireless Sensor Network I Delay Tolerant Network
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Before joining UPES, he worked with Amity University, Rajasthan, India as Assistant Professor. He has completed his PhD (IT) from Amity University, Rajasthan. He has done M.Tech (CS) from Jagannath University Jaipur and has over 13 years of experience in Teaching, Administration, Liaison & Coordination, Student Management and Research & Analysis.
Profile Summary
Prof. Gupta has one patent granted to his name whereas three patents are published and has published various research papers in reputed research journals and attended many national and international conferences. He has 23 publications to date which include Scopus and Sci-indexed papers, Scopus-indexed conferences, and book chapters. In addition, he has edited two books till now.
Prof. Gupta’s belief in terms of teaching involves creating a conducive atmosphere which is quite permissible in terms of administered assessment as it enables students in terms of knowledge integration into a valuable framework of the learning process. The learning environment in a classroom should be accurate enough in terms of knowledge, skills impartment which in turn makes the student learning quite applicable in real-time circumstances in the future. Apart from that I firmly consider that learning-oriented education encourages learning which is very much focused.
Contact
Dr. Shaurya Gupta
Teaching Philosophy