His previous assignment was the first Assistant Dean (Programs), and Chair of Centre for Digital Learning at FLAME University, India’s premier Liberal Education University. He has held several leadership roles in the University as is an experienced academic administrator. His earlier assignments included research assistance at SJMSOM, IITB and faculty positions in Icfai Business School and Europe Asia Business Schools.
Research Interests
In his corporate avatar, he has worked across diverse industries like petrochemicals and plastics, software product, services and consulting with companies like Reliance Industries and Mind Technologies.
Professor and Associate Dean
Home
Work Experience
As a ‘Practicing Academic’, Niraj’s area of expertise lies in Strategic Thinking, Planning and Implementation, Strategic Management of Technology, Innovation and Analytics for Decision Making. He has conducted in-house programs for clients like National HRD Network, Tata Motors, Siemens, HPCL, and IBM. Senior executives from companies like Reliance, Amazon, TCS, Erricson, Angel Broking and Gabriel India have participated in his open programmes.
Close
Faculty
Prof. Mankad teaches courses like Business Strategy, Strategic Management, Innovation Management, International Business, Analytics for Strategy and Business Research Methods. He trains executives on Strategic Leadership, Strategic Thinking and Problem Solving, Decision Making and People Analytics.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Prof. Niraj’s is an ardent follower of student-centric learning and designs his course curriculum with a mix of pedagogies including case studies, projects, discussions, simulation, debates etc. He is adept at the use of digital tools within the classroom and encourages students to use them to enhance their learning. Prof. Mankad makes learning interesting by using movies and games that provide students with a deep understanding and reflection of topics being taught.
Profile Summary
School of Business
Dr. Niraj Mankad is an academician, researcher and corporate trainer. Niraj is adept in teaching using digital tools and platforms having worked on blended learning models. He trains University and School educators on effective online teaching and creating strategies for blended learning. Niraj is a Ph.D. in Strategy from SJMSOM, IIT Bombay and his MBA from the Leeds University Business School, UK.
Niraj’s research interest lies at the intersection of Technology, Innovation and Strategy and focuses on emerging digital technologies and its impact on the changing global business and strategy. He is also working on digital teaching strategies to enhance student learning at the graduate level and developing tools to enhance student learning.
Niraj has published book chapters and several articles in his area and lectured on technology, strategy and digital capabilities in several industry and academic forums, both in India and abroad.
Prof. Mankad has developed coursework on Technology Management for the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research on various topics. He has also been a Convenor of the Curriculum Review Committee for FLAME University and a member on various PhD vivas and Advisory Committees in multiple Universities.
Contact
niraj.mankad@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Niraj Shirish Mankad
Teaching Philosophy