Research Interests
He has also worked with Reliance Energy Trading Limited where his portfolio included Business Development & Power Sale/Purchase Contracting.
Home
Work Experience
Assistant Professor – Selection Grade
Awards and Grants
Before UPES, Navdeep worked with BSES Rajdhani Power Limited where he was managing Electricity Demand Forecasting & Scheduling and was also a part of the core group working on Power Purchase Optimization for BSES Rajdhani Power.
Close
n.bhatnagar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Faculty
Navdeep has published and presented various research papers in different Journals and Conferences. His scholarly activities are directed toward the Regulatory aspects of the Indian Power Sector, Financial Markets, Risk evaluation, Management & Mitigation, and Energy & Sustainability
Navdeep’s teaching philosophy is inclined towards practical learning. He ensures that the student is equipped to practically handle the tasks. As a part of his teaching pedagogy, he has been simulating various industrial processes in the classroom. He has also implemented project-based learning where the students are given individual projects at the beginning of the semester and are required to be submitted before the semester ends.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Navdeep has been teaching a variety of courses to BBA and MBA students in the Energy Domain. The courses include Power Trading & Network Administration, Energy Sector Market Research, Introduction to Sustainable Development, Solar Energy Resource Management, etc.
Navdeep Bhatnagar
Navdeep has over 15 years of professional experience in the fields of Electricity Trading, Electricity Distribution, and Management Education. He is currently working with the School of Business, UPES as an Assistant Professor (Senior Scale). Navdeep completed his master’s degree with a specialization in Energy Trading from the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies in 2008 and his Bachelor’s Degree in Commerce from H.N.B Garhwal University in 2006. He is pursuing his PhD in Management. Navdeep has worked extensively in the financial market and has recently been appointed as a Member of the Product Advisory Committee of the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) for the Energy Commodities. Navdeep also serves as a Subject Matter Expert for matters related to Electricity Trading Operations, and Electricity Market Regulations.
Profile Summary
School of Business
Power Trading I Power Distribution I Energy Trade & Risk Management I Renewable Energy I Energy, Sustainability & Governance I Smart Transportation
He also holds various certifications in the fields of Energy Trading, Risk Management, and Sustainability.
Contact
Received the Best Teacher Award (Higher Education Segment) in 2022
Teaching Philosophy