Research Interests
Dr. Aarushi has over five years of work experience in academia and four years of research experience. Prior to joining UPES, she taught at the School of Law, Bennett University, Greater Noida. She has also worked as an Assistant Professor at Shree Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary (SGT) University and NorthCap University in Gurugram. While pursuing her doctorate, she served as a teaching associate at Law Centre II at the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi.
Home
Dr. Aarushi Batra
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Aarushi Batra has authored and presented numerous papers on gender and human rights issues, with an emphasis on domestic violence against women, discrimination in sports, ambiguities surrounding hyperandrogenism and transgender rights, among others. She has also edited a book titled "New Dimensions of Women and Child Development". Dr. Aarushi has published papers in Scopus, UGC CARE, and peer-reviewed journals. She is invited as a resource person at various national and international conferences. Due to her keen interest in legal rights and advancements, she serves as a reviewer on the editorial board of two law journals in India.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
School of Law
Dr. Aarushi's teaching philosophy is grounded in the understanding that teaching is a continuous process, which involves learning and upgrading teaching tools and techniques. Her pedagogy involves a mix of classroom note-taking, peer group discussions, showing educational videos/documentaries, etc. She follows the Socratic method and encourages open discussions and Q&A sessions with students.
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Profile Summary
Throughout her academic journey, Dr. Aarushi has taught a wide array of subjects to both undergraduate and postgraduate students, such as Constitutional Law, Women & Law, Sports Law, Media Law, Law of Contracts, Administrative Law, Right to Information, Law of Torts, Competition Law, Research Methodology, International Environment Law, etc.
Dr. Aarushi Batra was awarded the "Iconic Women Creating a Better World for All" at the 84th Women Economic Forum in December 2022 for her contribution to pioneering the cause of women in sports.
Dr. Aarushi Batra is an Assistant Professor (Sr. Scale) at the School of Law, UPES. She holds a doctorate from the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi in Sports Law. She has a master's in law (LLM) with dual specialization in Corporate Law and Intellectual Property Rights from the Indian Law Institute, Delhi. She completed her B.A., LL.B. (Hons.) from Panjab University, Chandigarh. She has qualified for UGC (JRF & NET) in law. Dr. Aarushi is one of the leading academicians who has made significant contributions to the field of Sports Law. Her teaching interests include gender justice, human rights, constitutional law, sports law, and contract law. She is also the President of the Delhi Sports Empowerment Wing of G100 & WICCI (Women Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry).
Contact
Sports Law, Constitutional Law, Gender Justice, Human Rights, Environmental Law, Media Laws
aarushi.batra@ddn.upes.ac.in
Teaching Philosophy