Research Interests
“
Home
Oil Equity Acquisition and Assets Allocation
Work Experience
Professor
Exploration risk assessment of petroleum assets, portfolio management, Digitization across oil & gas projects. Natural Gas Markets. Unconventional resources. Designing courses for petroleum markets.
Awards and Grants
Close
Faculty
Storage and Transportation of Petroleum
Scholarly Activities
Understanding Natural Gas Business
Advance IT Applications in Oil & Gas
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Organised and executed Himalayan geological expedition for a group of Spanish geoscientists and results were published as an article
Profile Summary
Fundamentals of Petroleum Exploration.
Have more than 30 years of Industry work experience in various positions- Chief geophysicist ONGC, Exploration Manager Reliance Industry international assets, Exploration manager for Spanish oil major Repsol for West Africa in Madrid and later on for Latin America based at Houston. Of particular mention are Guyana, Surinam and Trinidad & Tobago. Joined UPES in July 2017 as Industry Fellow Oil & Gas.
ppainuly@ddn.upes.ac.in
Promod painuly is recognised is amongst the top oil & gas professionals recognised in India and internationally. His experience as both technical and project manager in securing assets and running exploration programs for hydrocarbons in different parts of the world has been significant. He has been an active member of professional societies – American Association of Petroleum Geologist (AAPG), European Association of Geoscientists & Engineers (EAGE) and Society of Petroleum Geophysicists (SPG) contributing articles and as Distinguished Educator. Support as Task force member for Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MOPNG) on Digital E&P Roadmap of India launched by Govt. Advising on oil & Gas technical audits to govt. auditors for PSUs. Collaborations with international energy agencies such as IEA (International Energy Agency-GOT) and NITI Aayog. Collaborating with companies in India – Essar Oil, ONGC and Cairn India as well as international academic institution – University of Adelaide.
School of Business
The teaching philosophy is grounded as a hybrid of theory and project based learning. Emphasis is also on contemporary issues and problem solving. Exposure to industry is brought by various means such as visit to labs, museums, Institutes of eminence in Dehradun such as ONGC, and IIP. Certification is included as part of assessment such as SAP-Oil & Gas and Coursera. Students are also encouraged to contribute to student led chapters such as FIPI and articles in various conferences and journals.
Contact
Distinguished educator for Society of Petroleum Geophysicist, Trainer for ONGC and Accenture professionals on upstream consultancy, Training on CCS to Accenture professionals. Under EU-Erasmus grant taught at University of Maribor, Slovenia.
Promod Kumar Painuly
Geological cross-section through the Garhwal Himalaya, NW India”. As a co –chair contributed to Digitization E&P Roadmap of India, a policy document by MOPNG, GOI. Presented technical papers in International conferences – Building Smart Cites at Singapore and Deep Water exploration Risks at Myanmar.
Data Analytics Applications in Oil & Gas
Teaching Philosophy