Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Sakshee.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Ms. Sakshee has five years of teaching experience. Before joining UPES, she was associated with IMS Unison University, Dehradun, where she completed a stint of 2.5 years.
School of Law
Eligibility Criteria
"Review of Cyber Crime and the Victimization of Women: Laws, Rights, and Regulations" by Debarati Halder and K. Jaishankar, Pragyaan Journal of Law, Vol 10, Issue 2, Dec 2020.
Profile Summary
Ms. Sakshee's teaching endeavors are firmly focused on fostering curiosity and critical thinking among students. She believes that by cultivating inquisitiveness in young minds, we can liberate them from the shackles of conventional learning models and help them achieve wondrous success. She is also an ardent believer in the philosophy that a teacher should not only fulfill her professional obligations by imparting course-related knowledge but also strive to inculcate a rich and unadulterated value system in all her students.
http://www.wisdomcrux.lawtimesjournal.in/
Paper Presentation on "Gendered Digital Violence: A Misogynistic Attack on Digital Rights of Women," MNLU, Nagpur, National Seminar on Gender Justice - Breaking Stereotypes, Discrimination, and Prejudice, October 2022.
"Victim Blaming: Transgression from the Real World to the Virtual World," Pragyaan Law Journal, Vol 10, Issue 1, June 2020.
Assistant Professor
"Communal Politics: A Fallout of the Pre-independence Nationalist Movement," International Journal of Legal Research and Governance, Volume 6, Issue 1.
Ms. Sakshee Sharma
Law of Torts | International Human Rights Law | Public International Law | Criminology | Penology | International Criminal Law | International Humanitarian Law
Contact
"Challenges to the Universality of Human Rights," Wisdom Crux, Volume 4, Issue 1. Available at:
Ms. Sakshee is a gold medalist graduate from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law and has completed her master's degree from the Indian Law Institute, Delhi. During her master's degree, she specialized in Criminal Law and Human Rights. Upon entering the field of academia, she fostered her interest in the study of Public International Law, International Criminal Law, International Human Rights Law, and International Humanitarian Law. Her ongoing Ph.D. from Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla, focuses on the gendered nature of cyber harassment in the technology-driven ecosystem.
"Truth Identification via Forensic Science: A Legal Analysis of Admissibility of Deception Detection Tests," Pragyaan: Journal of Law, Volume 12, Issue 2, December 2022.
Human Rights | International Criminal Law | Cyber Crimes | Criminology | Victimology
Teaching Philosophy