Faculty
Dr. Utkarsh Jain is recognized as one of the leading experts on Nanotechnology, Biosensors, Drug delivery, and Host-pathogen interactions. His influential and prize-winning research focuses on “Molecularly Imprinted Polymers for Chemical Sensing”, “Ultrasensitive detection of anandamide”, “Real-time lab based absolute physiological electrochemical sensing device development”, “Home-based portable device integrated with a smartphone app for monitoring of HbA1c”, “Intelligent Management of Chronic Wounds in Diabetic Patients”, “Ion irradiated zinc oxide tetrapods based biohybrid interface for improved voltammetric sensing” and “Sensor detects bacteria that cause stomach cancer”. It addresses issues related to neonatal sepsis; Helicobacter pylori-associated gastric cancer, detection of neurotransmitters, and Diabetes. He has published more than 74 articles, 13 book chapters, and 2 books in plenty of well-known international journals. Dr. Jain is currently guiding 4 Ph.D. students in addition to the 3 Ph.D. students he has already supervised. Work Experience Dr. Utkarsh Jain held the position of Assistant Professor - Grade III at the Amity Institute of Nanotechnology, Amity University, India, before joining UPES. He has served as the group leader of cell culture at Navya Biologicals and an application specialist at Carl Zeiss. Additionally, he was a post-doctoral fellow at the Indian Institute of Science (IISC), Bangalore. He then worked for several reputable organizations, including Teerthanker Mahavir University and Mapaex Remedies. Research Interests Microbiology I Nanotechnology I Nanomaterials I Nanosensors I Drug Delivery I Cancer Biology Teaching Philosophy The foundation of Dr. Utkarsh Jain's teaching philosophy is his belief that he must create an environment that encourages and promotes student learning. Pre-reading assignments, in which students study assigned passages from the textbook or other resources before going to class, where they complete a brief quiz, are some components he has integrated into his classes.
Contact
utkarsh.jain@ddn.upes.ac.in
Dr. Utkarsh Jain
Home
Profile Summary
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Close
The content covered on the quiz is not covered again in class; instead, it serves as the basis for in-class activities that require the students to use real data and scenarios. Courses Taught Dr. Utkarsh teaches Basic Bio-science, Advance Bioscience, Biophysics, Microbiology, Nanoparticles and Microorganisms, Bio nanoscience, Bio Nanotechnology, Biosensors, Biological Nanocomposite, Diagnostic Applications of Nanomaterials, Advanced Characterization Techniques, Biophysics, Biological Applications of Nanomaterial, Nanoagrochemicals in Crop Management, Nanoparticles in Medicine and Bioanalytical Application, Biosensors Fundamentals and Applications, Nanotoxicology and environment and Nanomaterials in Medicine, Nanomaterials in Drug Delivery and Analytics. Awards and Grants Dr. Utkarsh received the “Outstanding Plus” Researcher and Faculty Award in Annual Research and Academic Performance Grading at Amity University, Shortlisted in ‘’SERB STAR’’ Award Nomination, International Travel Grant –Department of Biotechnology for Deliver an Invited talk at Paris, Best Oral Presentation Award, and Best Poster Presentation Award in 7th ICEBB, Paris. He also received Young Scientist Award in International Congress at Amity University, Noida, India. Dr. Utkarsh also received more than 8 external funding from various prestigious organizations such as DBT, DST, SERB Extramural Research Funding, SERB Young Scientist Project, IIPME, BIRAC, DST – UKIERI, and IUAC – USER on Development of Molecular Imprinting Technology based Selective Impedimetric Sensor, microfluidics based electrochemical immune-sensor for the dual detection of VEGF/ CagA, Electrochemical ultra[1]sensing platform for detecting neonatal sepsis, ultrasensitive detection of anandamide, etc. Scholarly Activities In order to provide training and development and to better understand the philosophy of science, Dr. Utkarsh has led multidisciplinary teams on an international collaborative initiative. His work strongly approaches innovation, emphasizing the importance of disease identification and therapeutic prospect. For instance, he trains researchers from strong scientific backgrounds to start generating novel ideas, and he creates scientific devices and therapeutic systems to identify and treat diseases
Sr. Associate Professor
Eligibility Criteria