Manish has worked in multidisciplinary teams on collaborative projects that involve areas like wireless communication, signal processing, artificial intelligence, biomedical signal processing and computer vision, among others. He has published his research works in reputed peer-reviewed SCI-indexed journals and international conferences. He is an active member of IEEE and the Signal Processing Society.
Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
School of Computer Science
Manish received the MHRD scholarship for doing M.E. and PhD in 2013 and 2018, respectively. He is also a recipient of UGC-NET fellowship for assistant professor.
Manish’s teaching philosophy revolves around cultivating an inclusive and interactive learning environment. He believes in empowering students by fostering critical thinking, creativity, and practical application of knowledge. By blending theoretical concepts with real-world examples, he aims to inspire curiosity and a thirst for learning. Through open communication and active engagement, he aspires to create a space where diverse perspectives are valued, and students are encouraged to explore, collaborate, and develop skills that extend beyond the classroom. Ultimately, his goal is to equip students with the tools they need to succeed academically and thrive in their future endeavours.
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Manish Kumar Giri
His research interests include but not limited to Cooperative spectrum sensing, resource optimization, security aspects of cognitive radio, internet of things, and application of machine learning techniques in wireless communication.
manishk.giri@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
Manish Kumar Giri received his Master of Engineering and Bachelor of Engineering degrees from Government Engineering College, Ujjain, and SSCET Junwani Bhilai, respectively. He has submitted his Ph.D. thesis in Electronics and Communication Engineering from National Institute of Technology Raipur. He is proficient in delivering course content, fostering engaging classroom discussions, and providing personalized guidance. He has proven expertise in application of machine learning in wireless communication, contributing to cutting-edge research and publications.
Assistant Professor
Contact
Before joining UPES, Manish Kumar Giri was at the National Institute of Technology Raipur, where he worked as a full-time Ph.D. research scholar and assisted in conducting lectures, tutorials and laboratory sessions. Before joining NIT Raipur, he was with Prestige Institute of Engineering Management and Research, Indore, at the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering.
Teaching Philosophy
Manish teaches subjects such as the Internet of Things, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Wireless Communication, Analog and Digital Communication, Computer Networks, and Data Communication.