The market of computer gaming market stood at 197Billion $ worldwide in 2022. Mobile gaming market in particular reached 3Billion $ in the same year. The market offers huge opportunities for various software and hardware solutions in various parts of its value chain. There are scopes of innovations in the controllers used for mobile games. The team is initially building next generation game controllers with natural interactions. The target is to reach mass market of mobile gaming in India and across the world.
Aspire to be known for the innovation and more importantly which suits the needs of the end
The game controllers currently are not natural to use or interact to play the games.
Home
Chip Manufacturing outsourcing
Close
School of Computer Science
Dr. Bhupendra Singh - Achievement
https://drive.google.com/file/d/19tXkmY4gBnRfmutzmjzj2p9OYLk2Wzp1/view?usp=drivesdk
Next generation mobile game controller.
Core Capabilities: -
Unit Sale
Core Purpose:
Main objective: -
The electronics component and the manufacturing must be outsourced outside.
Enhancing gaming experience of the users with natural interactions.
Eligibility Criteria
Providing game controllers which help users navigate in the virtual 3D world and play games.
Dr Singh's startup "Sense3D" accepted into Runway incubator's first Cohort.
Faculty Achievements
Sense3D technologies
Below is the link to see the working prototype:
Innovation
Distribution Channels: -
Key Resources:
To provide cost effective 3D applications and solutions for 3D artists and application developers.
Existing Retailers / Online
The venture aims to leverages 3D graphics and XR technologies along with IoT to provide software and hardware solutions in the form of business applications for strategic planning, visualization and coordination and entertainment.
Dr. Bhupendra Singh
The products are planned to be sold online as well as through the retail chains.
To be known for innovation in Indian and across the world in our segment.
explores the opportunities of adding sensing capabilities to the 3D graphics applications.
To launch next generation game controllers in the market for mobile gamers.
Revenue Streams: -
Business aspirations can be explained as: -
Value Propositions: