Research Interests
Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Close
Dr. Bhatt has completed two research projects under GoUK as principal/co-principal investigator. He also received IMPRESS grant from Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, in 2018-19 to evaluate the economic benefits of preserving the Himalayan Biodiversity.
Dr. Mohammad Younus Bhatt
Faculty
Prior to joining UPES, Dr. Bhatt was associated with Jamia Millia Islamia, and held a visiting position at the Amity School of Biotechnology, Amity School of Food Technology, and Amity School of Economics.
Scholarly Activities
Younus.bhat@ddn.upes.ac.in
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Bhatt holds a Ph.D. in Economics with specialisation in Environmental Valuation and Choice Modelling. His key research interests, patently tethered to the Himalayan region, revolve around the application of econometric valuation techniques to biodiversity loss (environmental assets) and conservation by the adoption of avant-garde mitigation strategies to restore sustainable biodiversity of ecosystems. Recently he brought out a book specifying biodiversity loss and energy vulnerability; simultaneously highlighting the issues and prospects in safeguarding environmental biodiversity and renewable energy efficiency, ecosystem chains and human living standards. His current research project in collaboration with Ministry of Human Resource and Development (funded through the IMPRESS scheme) treats the conservation of alpha, beta, and gamma natural ecological Himalayan biodiversity through economic valuation techniques.
Profile Summary
Dr. Bhatt teaches Principles of Economics, Managerial Economics, Microeconomics and Macroeconomics for the BBA, BA, BCOM and MBA students.
Dr. Bhatt’s teaching philosophy reflects his interest in collaborative structure. Instead of the ‘one-way teaching’ method of long lectures, he prefers student-centric teaching that encourages learning by both students and teachers. He favours classroom dynamics that permit dialogue and foster teacher-student interactions to improve learning. This means that students also spend a fair amount of time in smaller groups in which they talk and think together.
Environmental Economics| Energy Economics| Climate Change
School of Business
Contact
Dr. Bhatt’s research is meticulously devoted to spatial gauging of climate change repercussions on the current levels of Himalayan biodiversity (pertaining to National Parks and Wetlands), energy-economic growth nexus and electric vehicle adoption in India. In addition, his research interest lies in the backward-forward linkages of ‘eco-tourism’ in the Himalayan regions with financial support from the central institutions, including MHRD, ICSSR, DST and the local power structures to provide fitting growth strategies, thereby ensuring the transition towards sustainable economic growth among the local Himalayan communities.
Teaching Philosophy