Poster presentation titled "Interaction among offset cracks in an orthotropic plane" in Indian Women and Mathematics 2023 held in IISER-Bhopal from 13-15 July 2023.
Got Travel support for Indian Women and Mathematics Annual Conference, 2023 held in IISER, Bhopal.
Research Interests
Ms Anshika is passionate about teaching and to inculcate the mathematical thinking in students. Her teaching philosophy includes motivating the students to learn and gain fundamental knowledge of the subject matter. She focuses her classroom teaching on this principle of student engagement and interaction. She believes that every student has the potential of their own and teachers are a guide for their students to find their full potential.
Presented "Interaction among offset cracks in an orthotropic plane under thermo-mechanical loadings" in International Conference on Algebra, Mathematical Analysis & Simulation held in Calcutta Mathematical Society, India, 8-10 December 2022.
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
Actively involved as session coordinator for 5th-ICMEMS conference held in UPES, Dehradun from 13-14 Dec, 2024.
Close
Anshika Tanwar
Faculty
Ms Anshika has core research experience in Applied Mathematics. Her research field is Fracture Mechanics where she has worked on problems using the principles of thermo-elasticity and solid mechanics. She has worked on problems related to cracks mechanics under the impact of thermal and mechanical loadings in orthotropic composite materials. Till now, she has done semi-analytical analysis of physical parameters like stress intensity factors, heat flux intensity, crack opening displacements, crack energy etc using the mathematical concepts of integral equations, partial differential equations, integral transforms viz, Fourier transform, Laplace transform. She has published research articles in this field related to problems involving thermo-elasticity in orthotropic materials.
Ms. Anshika has during her PhD, worked actively as a teaching assistant and tutor for several B. Tech courses in IIT (BHU). This includes Real Analysis, Probability and Statistics, Mathematical Methods. She has joined the School of Advanced Engineering, UPES from September 2024.
Presentation paper titled "Partially insulated cracks under thermo-mechanical loadings" in MSADE-2024 held in IIT-Ropar from 26 Feb-02 March 2024.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Ms Anshika has been actively involved in academic activities. She has published five research articles in international SCI/SCIE journals so far which includes Journal of Thermal Stresses, Acta Mechanica, ZAMM etc. and has presented her work in several national and international conferences.
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Volunteered at international conference RAAM-2 held in IIT (BHU).
Ms. Anshika has done B.Sc. (Hons) Mathematics from Kirori Mal College, University of Delhi with first division with distinction. She has pursued M.Sc. Mathematics with Computer Science from Department of Mathematics, Jamia Millia Islamia in 2017 and then went on to pursue her Ph.D. from Department of Mathematical Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (BHU), Varanasi. Along with this, she has also completed bachelor's in education degree with distinction in 2019. She has qualified CSIR-JRF with AIR-88 and GATE-2018 and 2019 in Mathematics. Her research area includes Fracture Mechanics where she has published five research articles in reputed international journals. She is actively involved and passionate about her research in Applied Mathematics.
Assistant Professor
anshika.tanwar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Contact
Ms. Anshika has taught B.Tech Computer science - Advanced Engineering Mathematics-I and BTech Computer Science- Discrete Mathematical Structures, B. Tech – Advanced Engineering Mathematics-II (going on).
Applied Science
Ms. Anshika has qualified JRF/NET-CSIR- Mathematical Sciences (AIR-88) in 2019, GATE-Mathematics (2018, 2019). She also got the prestigious International Travel Support from SERB to attend international conference in 2024.
Teaching Philosophy