Research Interests
Home
Work Experience
Dr. Naveen’s research specialization is Manufacturing Technologies. The key research interest extends to Additive Manufacturing, Joining Technologies for EV applications, Advanced Welding Technologies, Welding Automation and Process Monitoring, Material Characterization Techniques, Simulation for various joining processes, Surface Engineering and Erosive Wear.
Close
Furthermore, he actively serves as a reviewer for the various reputed and peer-reviewed National/International research journals like Proceedings of the iMeche, Part E: Journal of Process Mechanical Engineering, Welding International, Frontier Robotics and AI, Journal of Manufacturing Processes, Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Journal of Materials Engineering and Performance etc.
Faculty
Mechanical
Before joining UPES, Dr. Naveen worked as an Institute Postdoctoral Fellow at Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Delhi, from May 2022 to May 2024. He previously worked for Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET) Lucknow from September 2021 to May 2022 as an Assistant Professor.
Scholarly Activities
Dr. Naveen Kumar
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
naveen.kumar1@ddn.upes.ac.in
Profile Summary
School of Advanced Engineering
Dr. Naveen’s teaching philosophy emphasizes the importance of integrating cutting-edge research with practical teaching methods, encouraging critical thinking, and fostering a collaborative learning environment. The approach likely focuses on ensuring students gain both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience, particularly in areas related to manufacturing processes, welding technologies, and additive manufacturing.
Assistant Professor
Dr. Naveen teaches courses such as Smart Manufacturing, Fundamental of Robotics, Additive Manufacturing, Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Manufacturing Processes, Research Methodology etc.
Dr. Naveen Kumar is an Assistant Professor at Mechanical Cluster, UPES. He is dedicated and results-driven Mechanical Engineering professional with extensive experience in academia and research with a focus on Additive Manufacturing, Welding Technologies and Automation, Joining Technologies for Electric Vehicles and Erosive Wear in Hydro Turbines. He has contributed through numerous publications in high-impact journals and National/International conferences of repute. He has a robust academic background, including M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from IIT Roorkee. Before joining UPES, he was working as an Institute Postdoctoral Fellow at the Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Delhi. Dr. Kumar possesses a demonstrated ability to lead research projects, deliver impactful teaching, and contribute to technological advancements for societal betterment.
Contact
Dr. Naveen has published more than 10 research articles in top quality (SCI/SCIE) international journals and presented 08 papers at conferences of repute in India and abroad. He has served as the session chair for the International Conference on "Recent Advances in Materials, Manufacturing and Machine Learning (RAMMML-2023). He has also delivered several invited talks at the institutes of repute such as one-week high-end workshop on Metal Additive Manufacturing: Fundamentals and Applications at IIT Delhi, workshop organized by Indian Welding Society at IIT Delhi, AIMTDR-2023 conference at IIT (BHU) Varanasi, A webinar organized by The Indian Institute of Welding (IIW), Chennai Branch etc.
Teaching Philosophy