Neha Verma's research interests revolve around the FM radio industry in India, focusing on radio broadcasting, media branding, and the impact of media on society. As a Ph.D. research scholar, she has contributed to the understanding of the industry and its implications for communication and society.
Research Interests
Neha Verma's teaching philosophy revolves around creating an engaging and collaborative learning environment that nurtures students' intellectual growth and practical skills. She emphasizes practical projects and hands-on experience to equip students with industry-relevant skills. She strives to provide a supportive space where students can explore their creativity, develop effective communication skills, and gain a comprehensive understanding of media practices and industry dynamics. In her voice modulation training, she maintains a calm and patient approach, recognizing that effective communication skills can be developed over time. In event management course she emphasizes the importance of decision-making skills, empowering students to make informed choices and take ownership of their projects. Her teaching philosophy promotes personal growth, self-confidence, and the continuous improvement of communication skills.
Home
Work Experience
Neha Verma has taught a diverse range of courses, including Radio Production, Broadcast Journalism, Media Ethics, Media Management, Event Management, Social Media Marketing, Marketing Management and Brand Management. With her vast experience in the field, Neha brings real-world examples and practical insights to her teaching. She combines theoretical foundations with practical applications to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of media practices and industry dynamics. Neha has successfully delivered these courses to undergraduate, postgraduate, and diploma students, equipping them with both theoretical knowledge and practical skills.
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Awards and Grants
Close
Neha Verma
Faculty
Neha Verma has received several accolades and recognition throughout her career. She holds a Vani Certification from 'Prasar Bharti' and is a Certified Media Literacy Trainer for FACTSHALA, a commendable initiative by Google.org. Neha's contributions have been appreciated with certificates of recognition from UNICEF and "Bhartiya Vigyan Sammelan-2012." Her exceptional voice-over work in the National Award-winning radio documentary "Eh Kaisi Khed" has further showcased her talent and dedication. Additionally, Neha has actively participated in the 7th AIU South Asian University Fest as a member of the Core Conduct team.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
neha.verma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor - Senior Scale
Profile Summary
Neha has an extensive work experience in the field of radio, including All India Radio as a radio jockey and approved radio drama artist, Spice Fm Calgary Canada as a radio jockey, Reliance Broadcast Network Ltd. as a dubbing artist, and Doordarshan as a TV anchor. She has also worked as a Project Officer at Lovely Professional University. As an event manager she has organised more than 200 National and International events including the prestigious Bhartiya Vigyan Sammelan 2012, Coke Studio Live,7th South Asian University Festival, One India, One World, and many promotional events with various Bollywood Celebrities. She has also organized prestigious events for three Presidents of different countries including the Honourable President of India, Sh. Pranab Mukherjee, President of Mauritius Sh. Rajkeswur Purryag and President of Afghanistan Sh. Hamid Karzai. She is also a certified Media Literacy Trainer by Google.org. As a media literacy trainer, she had done multiple workshops in Rural areas to spread awareness against fake news. She served as Brand Manager for Beyond Education, New Zealand. She worked as an assistant professor at G.D. Goenka University and Amity University.
Throughout her career, Neha has actively engaged in scholarly activities, including publishing research papers, attending conferences, and participating in workshops. She has participated in notable events such as the Dharamshala International Film Festival, Asia Reporters Meet, and the International Film Festival of India. She has established a campus radio channel for G.D Goenka University and led it for four years. Her research work focuses on Private FM Radio Industry and Media Brands in India. Her involvement as a media literacy trainer in FACTSHALA programs highlights her commitment to promoting critical thinking and digital literacy among various audience segments. She participated in prestigious APAC Trusted Media Summit 2022 and YouTube Health Summit 2022 at New Delhi.
Contact
Neha Verma is a diversified media professional with an experience of 15 years in Radio, TV, Dubbing, Voice Over, and Event Management. Holding dual master's degrees in Journalism and Mass Communication, as well as Business Economics, she is pursuing her Ph.D in Media Management. Neha's expertise extends beyond broadcasting and event management. She is a Certified Media Literacy Trainer and has taught a range of subjects in the field of mass communication.
Teaching Philosophy