Research Interests
vkumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
Home
Work Experience
Close
Kumar has more than 2 decades of professional experience in teaching. He started his career as Lecturer at Department of Management Studies, GLAITM, Mathura (affiliated to UPTU) in 2003. He joined UPES, Dehradun in 2007 as Assistant Professor. Apart from classroom teaching, he has also taken sessions for Management Development & ISPE Training Programs for OIL, BPCL, etc. He has attended several faculty development programs at institutions like IIM Bangalore, NIT Jalandhar, IIM Lucknow, IIT Roorkee, and IIM Indore. Kumar has also visited University of Maribor, Slovenia, under Erasmus+ Erasmus+ (Faculty Exchange Program) sponsored by European Union and delivered sessions on international students. He seamlessly combines theoretical concepts with exercises and supplements with hands-on training.
Faculty
Kumar has published papers on topics like Project Feasibility, Project Discounting Rate, Environmental Impact of River Valley Projects, Impact of COVID on Tourism, and Tourism projects. He has also presented his papers at national and international conferences held at IIM Kozhikode, Doon University, AMU Aligarh, ICMI-UPES, GKU Haridwar and has had meaningful academic exchanges with the management education fraternity. He consistently updates himself with the latest happenings in the area by attending Faculty Development Programs and Online Training Programs regularly. He aims to enhance his intellectual capital through incremental growth in his knowledge corpus through continuous learning and exposure.
Vikas Kumar
Kumar takes great interest in coaching and guiding students. He has been a mentor to many students for their Summer Internship, Industrial and Dissertation Projects. He has conducted student sessions for placement preparation, group discussion and NET exams. He encourages students for active class participation and experiential/activity-based learning through live projects. Kumar has led several student industrial visits and summer internship on-site mentoring visits. He has been course coordinator, and time-table coordinator and undertaken several other academic administrative jobs including NAAC, NBA, IQAC related activities. Kumar consistently stresses on integrity, sincerity and mutual respect to inculcate punctuality, discipline and positive attitude in students.
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Profile Summary
School of Business
Assistant Professor (SG)
Contact
Mr. Kumar has experience of teaching Project Management & Contract Administration, Production & Operations Management, Managerial/Business Economics, Introduction to Supply Chain Management, and Service operations to students of graduation and postgraduation programs at the School of Business, School of Engineering and School of Law.
Vikas Kumar is a seasoned faculty in the field of Project Management & Operations Management. His sound knowledge and teaching-learning style are well-appreciated by students. Kumar is an MBA from Faculty of Management Studies & Research, AMU, Aligarh, and B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) from Zakir Husain College of Engineering & Technology, AMU, Aligarh. He has also qualified UGC-NET (Management). His interest areas are production function, environmental, social and economic impacts of energy and infrastructure projects.
Teaching Philosophy
Environmental, Social and Economic Impact of Energy and Infrastructure Projects, Project Costing and Feasibility.