Dr. Umer Jon Ganai adheres to the tripartite model of teaching. In this approach, the learner and instructor first discuss the course concepts in the classroom, then apply them in the field, and finally return to the lab to test new hypotheses. This process ensures that both teaching and research complement each other and ultimately contribute to society. Furthermore, Dr. Ganai ensures that every learner receives equal attention both inside and outside the classroom.
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai has served as a teaching assistant at the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IITK) for courses such as Introduction to Psychology and Communication Skills. He has also been a tutor for several courses on the SWAYAM NPTEL platform, including Introduction to Psychology, Brief Introduction to Psychology, and Psychology of Everyday Life. Previously, he worked as a consulting psychologist at Cute Brains Pvt. Ltd., where he assessed young children for potential neurodevelopmental issues.
Research Interests
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai holds a Ph.D. in Psychology from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IITK). During his Ph.D., he collaborated extensively with disciplines such as computer science and electrical engineering. His research interests include neurodevelopmental disorders, cognitive psychology, and psychopathology. He is trained in advanced methodologies, including computer vision (CV), artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and network analysis. His research is interdisciplinary and translational in nature.
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai
Home
Work Experience
Awards and Grants
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Teaching Philosophy
1. Quantitative Research Methods (Year 3/Sem 5)
Close
Faculty
Scholarly Activities
Courses Taught
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai’s research focuses on the early detection and diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). He has developed a non-invasive, computer vision based technique to assess motor function in children and, subsequently, employs artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) for the automatic and early detection of ASD. His current research explores neurodevelopmental disorders, and the intersection of motor and cognitive functions in young children. Further, his work extends to the application of new research methods in psychology and cognitive science. Dr. Ganai’s research also emphasizes the prediction paradigm as a complementary approach to the explanatory paradigm in psychology and cognitive science.
Profile Summary
umerjon.ganai@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistant Professor
2. Research Methods in Psychology (Year 2/Sem3)
Contact
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai’s work has been published in prestigious journals, including the British Journal of Clinical Psychology (British Psychological Society), Psychological Trauma: Theory, Research, Practice, and Policy (American Psychological Association), and IEEE Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (Computer Vision Foundation). He has also received a grant and served as a visiting researcher at the Department of Psychology, Neuroscience, and Behaviour at McMaster University, Canada. There, he focused on intracortical myelination in bipolar disorder and the application of artificial intelligence to enhance statistical power in clinical neuroimaging.
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai has presented his research at various national and international conferences. He has also delivered an invited talk in a conference jointly organized by the Ulster University, UK and IIT Kanpur. He is also an ad-hoc reviewer of various journals and a member of several professional bodies.
Dr. Umer Jon Ganai was awarded a financial merit scholarship during his master's program and received the MITACS Globalink Research Award, funded by the Canadian provincial and federal governments.