can help your startup take flight with the support and resources it deserves.
Absolutely! At UPES, we believe in tailoring education to your unique interests and aspirations. Our curriculum design offers unparalleled flexibility, focusing on holistic learning while catering to individual needs. To know more about how we empower you to craft your academic journey,
The school also offers a flagship B.Sc. Research Hons. program in History and Politics, which provides students with a thorough grounding in the core disciplines of Political Science and History. Graduates of this program will double major in Political Science and History and have the option of completing a minor in Economics with Data Science and another in Environmental Sciences. In this unique transdisciplinary program, the faculty draws upon the complementarities of Political Science, History, and International Relations, towards shaping an enriching and coherent global program. The program, individual courses, and curriculum design are commensurate with those practiced in International BA/B.Sc. History and Politics programs.
Yes! UPES is dedicated to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship. We offer comprehensive incubation support for startups through our mentor-driven initiative, Runway. This dynamic program serves as a catalyst for innovators across the nation to establish and grow their businesses.
https://www.upes.ac.in/school-of-liberal-studies
To learn more,
Led by Professor Phani Tetali, an accomplished animator, educator, and cartoonist with over 30 years of experience, our school benefits from his wealth of knowledge. Professor Tetali, formerly the Head of IDC School of Design at IIT Bombay, completed his B.Tech. from IIT, BHU, Varanasi, and his M.Des. in Visual Communication from IDC School of Design, IIT Bombay.
At UPES Dehradun, we believe that education goes beyond textbooks and classrooms. That's why we've introduced the School for Life that provides a well-rounded learning experience for every student, regardless of their chosen specialisation among our eight schools. Through its bespoke curricular structure, the School for Life aims to deliver a broad base of curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular learning experience that is the unique signature of an UPES graduate and contributes towards his/her development as a 21st Century learner with strong metacognitive abilities.
Click Here
We offer credit transfer programs facilitating progression opportunity abroad at esteemed foreign universities such as The University of Queensland, Australia, and more. There is also a semester abroad opportunity at The University of California, Berkeley. To learn more,
Runway provides invaluable mentorship to guide startups on their journey, helping them navigate challenges and make informed decisions through a mix of grants and investments, legal and incorporation support, and allocation of dedicated workspace. The team comprises entrepreneurs, investors, mentors, and subject matter experts (SMEs) who excel in building solutions that resonate with people’s needs.
Visit
: Professors of Practice are appointed for one year, with the option for renewal by mutual consent. While they are not considered professorial staff, they play a pivotal role in imparting knowledge. Their contributions extend beyond ad hoc or one-off masterclasses; they teach entire semester courses, providing students with invaluable insights into the practical nuances and real-world applications of legal principles. It is a perfect blend of practical knowledge and theoretical learning.
UPES offers diverse global opportunities, including student and faculty exchange programs, progression pathways, study abroad programs at prestigious institutions like Berkeley Global, and international programs in collaboration with The University of Queensland.
Is the School of Design at UPES good?
Frequently Asked Questions
The title of "Professor of Practice" at UPES School of Law carries immense significance in our pursuit of excellence in legal education. The position is not based on academic merit and no assessment procedure is used in the appointment process.
Of course! UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology offers a wide range of programs to choose from, including B.Tech., B.Sc., B.Pharm., M.Sc., B.Sc. – M.Sc., and Ph.D.
https://www.upes.ac.in/schools/school-of-design
Yes! UPES School of Liberal Studies is one of the first institutions in India to implement the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS). This enables students to explore their preferred discipline in-depth (major) while combining it with related disciplines (minors). For example, you can major in economics with a minor in applied mathematics or major in politics with a minor in history. Ambitious students can pursue a double major, such as History and Politics.
Our partnership with IED (The Istituto Europeo di Design), Italy, enhances our global perspective and enriches the learning experience for our students.
https://www.upes.ac.in/placement/alumni-connect
Our alliances with industry giants including Microsoft, bring real world relevance to our engineering programs. To know more, visit -
* For further details, refer to T&C
If you're an aspiring entrepreneur or have a groundbreaking idea,
World-Class Publications
Forty-two UPES faculty members are in the list of top 2% researchers in the world, according to a study led by eminent scientists from Stanford University.
Close
To explore our industry collaborations,
: UPES School of Law runs professional programs leading to degrees that entitle the degree holder to appear for All India Bar Examination (AIBE) to qualify as an Advocate in India. Degree holders in law may also choose to enter various other professional jobs, like in-house counsel in companies, join higher education as teachers, become an entrepreneur, etc.
: As a mandatory part of our holistic education, every UPES student undergoes Srijan Social Internships. These internships are immersive, full-time experiences lasting eight weeks, partnering with social sector organisations. They are a vital component of our School for Life program. These internships are not limited to a select few; they are offered to all first-year students at UPES.
Runway
: To support our research endeavours, UPES Library provides a comprehensive collection of knowledge resources and innovative information services, ensuring that our faculty and students have access to the best tools for their scholarly pursuits.
International Best Practices
Runway also provides peripheral support like incorporation services, logo design, etc. to help establish a solid foundation. Each startup is paired with a dedicated mentor who provides guidance throughout the incubation process and beyond.
The School of Health Sciences and Technology nurtures a culture of research and education through experiential learning. We have established industry alliances with prestigious institutions like AIIMS Rishikesh, Merck, etc. Recently we signed an exclusive partnership with Wipro GE Healthcare, a leading global medical technology, diagnostics and digital solutions innovator, to jointly launch the B.Tech Biomedical Engineering program. This collaboration ensures that our students receive a curriculum co-designed and co-delivered with industry experts, making them industry-ready upon graduation. The school also has academic collaborations with Taipei Medical University, Taiwan, and University of Adelaide, Australia, providing our students with opportunities to broaden their horizons. In 2022, our school achieved a remarkable milestone with 100% placements, reaffirming the industry's confidence in the quality of education we provide.
To facilitate innovation, Runway provides access to well-equipped labs and a dedicated workspace for startups, fostering a collaborative environment. The start-ups get a chance to interact with industry experts through online and offline events and workshops, gaining valuable insights and building vital connections.
Our dedicated Department of International Affairs (DIA) supports international mobility from and to UPES. The university has collaborated with top-ranking universities worldwide with more than 50 partner universities across the globe and 7 active associations with international bodies.
Global Recognition:
Our faculty members at UPES are at the forefront of groundbreaking research, driving innovation, and addressing both local and global challenges. Our university has emerged as a vibrant hub of exploration and discovery, fostering a dynamic research environment.
Absolutely! UPES School of Design is one of the best institutions for design in India. Here’s why:
Through these internships, students engage with real-world social challenges, actively seeking solutions to address them. It's an opportunity to make a tangible impact on society while developing invaluable life skills.
for details.
What scholarships does UPES offer?
At UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology, we're dedicated to preparing the next generation of healthcare professionals for successful careers and impactful contributions to the field.
FAQs
Does UPES offer students the flexibility to choose their own combinations of core programs and minors?
Does the faculty at UPES have good credentials?
What is the research environment like at UPES?
At UPES, we are committed to nurturing well-rounded individuals who not only excel academically but also contribute meaningfully to society.
How is the faculty at UPES School of Liberal Studies?
Does UPES offer courses in Health Sciences?
The dean of UPES School of Liberal Studies Professor Shubhashis Gangopadhyay is an eminent economist. He has been an advisor to the Finance Minister at the rank of Secretary in the Government of India. He has been an Advisor to the Competition Commission of India, held several high-profile public policy advisory roles, and served as a consultant on policies to various ministries including Finance, Planning, Industry, and Rural Development. He encourages his students to holistically address global problems through a combination of technology to provide a technical fix and the insights of liberal studies to bring in a cultural, political, social, and human perspective.
We are proud members of the Cumulus Association and the World Design Organisation (WDO), a prestigious non-profit organisation based in Canada. WDO is renowned worldwide for its contributions to industrial design.
Got Questions? We've got the answers.
https://www.upes.ac.in/industry-connect
To be part of a transformative educational journey at UPES, visit
Certainly! UPES takes great pride in its dynamic alumni network comprising nearly 22,000 accomplished individuals spread across 10 regional chapters. Our commitment to alumni support is unwavering, and we offer a multitude of resources to nurture their growth.
Whether you're just starting or already on your journey,
How does UPES ensure global exposure for its students?
Load More
FAQ
: UPES has witnessed a remarkable leap in research productivity, with our faculty now producing an average of three research papers each—a substantial increase from 0.7 papers per faculty in a single year. This achievement is three times higher than the global average of one paper per faculty annually.
Is it a good idea to enroll in an engineering program at UPES?
Our comprehensive framework supports dual majors, multiple minors, and a credit bank, allowing students to choose multidisciplinary training. This provides a meaningful academic and learning engagement with an option of exploring beyond and across disciplines. Our globally-trained faculty members guide students in their dual major journeys, providing depth, breadth, and robustness to their undergraduate programs.
Key Criteria
s
is here to propel your startup journey to new heights.
For detailed information, please visit -
What does Professor of Practice mean for a law school?
Student Exchange happens between UPES and partner universities twice a year. The university also provides various internship and research opportunities to students from both UPES and partner universities.
click here
We have distinguished faculty members comprising over 700 academicians from world-renowned institutions, including Rhodes, Fulbright, Commonwealth, Chevening, DAAD, and Erasmus scholars, along with a Fox Fellow from Yale University.
Under their Global Pathway Program, students complete half of their course at UPES, and the other half at partner universities in the UK, Germany, Australia, Canada, and the USA. Upon successful completion of the course at the Partner University and complying with all academic criteria, the student receives a degree from the international partner university.
Does UPES have any significant industry tie-ups?
At UPES, we provide the knowledge, skills, and opportunities for you to excel in this dynamic field and make a meaningful impact on the world.
Engineering is a multifaceted field that encompasses a wide range of disciplines and specialties, from computer science to mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering, aerospace engineering, and more. Each of these disciplines focuses on the design, construction, and maintenance of a wide range of products, systems, and infrastructure. The goal of engineering is to use scientific and mathematical principles to solve practical problems and improve the quality of life. The scope of engineering is vast and encompasses a wide range of industries, from healthcare and transportation to energy and manufacturing.
Yes, indeed. UPES has several strategic collaborations and industry alliances that enrich our academic offerings. These collaborations with renowned companies like KPMG, NASSCOM, IBM, and Microsoft, along with partnerships with various other industries, provide UPES students with valuable industry exposure and practical learning opportunities. By leveraging these strategic alliances, UPES ensures that its students are well-prepared for a successful career in a rapidly evolving landscape.
Our collaborations with industry giants like Tech Mahindra, Desmania, and Mosaic ensure that your education is aligned with real-world requirements, giving you a competitive edge.
: At UPES School of Law, we emphasise clinical legal education, equipping our students with practical skills in research, court craft, advocacy, counselling, and legal drafting. Our approach aligns with the recognition by the Bar Council of India and UGC of the invaluable role played by practicing advocates and seasoned professionals in the teaching and learning process of law schools.
Does UPES have an alumni network? How does the university support its alumni?
Industry Partnerships:
Professional programs
Teaching Excellence
Remarkable Research Output
https://www.upes.ac.in/school-for-life
to meet our faculty.
Global Recognition
Does UPES offer incubation for start-ups?
Home
Balancing Theory and Practice
: Our research output is internationally recognised, with over 1,400 Scopus-indexed research papers in 2022, up from 1,100+ in 2021. Scopus is the world’s largest abstract and citation database of scientific literature. The university has grown twelve times in research output over the last seven years.
: Our policy on the "Appointment of Professors of Practice" is inspired by international best practices adopted by leading foreign universities and law schools. It represents our commitment to bridging the gap between legal theory and practice, preparing our students for success in the dynamic legal landscape.
International Collaboration:
At UPES, innovation takes flight through Runway, a dedicated start-up incubator that nurtures and supports both idea-stage and early-stage start-ups through an open application process, offering opportunities to entrepreneurs across India, regardless of their field of expertise.
What is the Runway initiative at UPES? How is it supporting start-ups?
Follow the link to explore alumni resources
Social Internships for Impact
: To hold this esteemed title, candidates must possess a minimum of 10 years of relevant industry experience. They are revered experts in their specific practice areas or technical domains. Our Professors of Practice include esteemed individuals such as senior partners at top Indian law firms, Directors/General Counsels/India Heads (Legal) of leading MNCs and Indian Corporates, Retired Supreme Court/High Court Judges, and distinguished legal practitioners actively engaged in High Courts and the Supreme Court.
Eligibility Criteria
Eminent Leadership:
: Twenty-five UPES faculty members are among the top 2% researchers in the world, according to Stanford list and eight of these researchers have found a place in the one of most coveted ‘Highly Cited Researchers’ list published by Clarivate.
The selected start-ups participate in a blended (online and offline) 10-week incubation program, which includes refining their business ideas, preparing them for the market and connecting them with potential investors.
.
Does the UPES School of Liberal Studies offer dual majors?
At UPES, we're proud to offer an environment where research thrives, driving us to new heights of academic excellence.
Cutting-Edge Facilities:
For more information,
Click here
UPES has partnered with esteemed foreign universities such as the University of Bologna (Italy), University of Gothenburg (Sweden) and HEIP (France). These partnerships facilitate faculty exchange programs, enriching the academic environment. The faculty members of India also have a rich exposure to foreign universities which broadens their horizons and brings diverse perspectives to the classroom.
Are life skills a part of the curriculum at UPES?
Extensive Knowledge Resources
At our school, you'll have access to world-class labs and studios equipped with state-of-the-art technology including 10 technology and art studios such as AR/VR, MAC, CAD, Cintiq and design studio, 3D printing machines, laser cutting machines, high-end computer workstations, vacuum-forming machines, spray-painting booths, among other creative learning aids.
Yes absolutely. UPES has been at the forefront of engineering education and research. Majority of our B.Tech programs are accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA), ensuring quality and industry relevance.