Selected students will bear their travel and accommodation charges. Charges depend on the lifestyle of students. Students can refer to individual university website for relative information.
and Corporate Communications
Q 8: What are the options for Global Program Pathways?
Virginia Commonwealth University website.
Simplified admission process
BA Financial Economics & Accounting
IELTS (Overall 6.5 with no less
Post-study work permit advantage
The Eligibility to partner University keeps changing from time to time and students can check entry requirements for eligible programs from the partner University's website
Destination
Nottingham Trent University website.
6 out of 10; and
BA/BSc Financial Economics
University of Aberdeen – Scotland
Bond University (Gold Coast)
BBA - Events, Public
Q 17: What are the accommodation option for students when they move to Partner university?
All Undergraduate programs will follow the Selection criteria for Domestic programs, as follows, or as may be specified from time to time:
• Student need to fulfil first two
10+2 with 50%
Relations and
Yes the student will be allowed to
Global Pathway Program facilitating progression and other pathway opportunities. UPES Global Pathway Program is a step towards giving exceptional international experience to students. Under the Global Pathway Program, students have the option to complete a certain portion of the course at UPES, and the balance at our academic partner universities (in the UK, Germany, Australia, Canada or the USA subject to completing the eligibility criterion of the academic partner universities.
MS Information System
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala)
Up to 20 hours per week during university semesters,
required for students to be eligible
Or
For other scholarships, please click
The list of Partner Academic Universities is as follows:
BA (Hons.) Graphic Design
Accommodation
of London
BA (Hons.) Animation
(Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal,
https://www.abdn.ac.uk/accommodation
recommendation from Dean is
Q 22: What is the total expense involved in studying at Partner University?
Partner University Programme
Applied Sciences
Q 4: Will the GPP (UG & PG) student get scholarship while studying at UPES?
or better with a minimum
The University of Queensland website.
IELTS (or equivalent) score of 6.0 with no element lower than 5.5
Students from select undergraduate and select Post graduate course are eligible to apply for the opportunity. These routes are predefined based on course length.
Full-time hours during vacations.
of interest,  and a highly-developed understanding of their choice of course. Students should state intended focus, personal and professional goals, reason(s) for
Overall score of 6.5
UPES facilitates enrolment of students to the Partner Universities, subject to student fulfilling the eligibility and entry requirements.
UPES Entrance Exam followed by Portfolio Presentation & Interview
Nottingham Trent University
BSc Economics with Maths
including English proficiency test such as
or more to be eligible to apply in UQ.
UPES guide you throughout the process.
MBA (GPP) Courses:
BA Journalism and Mass
Students may choose Campus Accommodation at the Partner University (subject to availability). Alternatively accommodation is assisted by Partner University by providing the required information. If students need advice on any options, they may please contact student accommodation services team and they'll be happy to advise e.g.
BSc Economics with Data Science
The extensive curriculum, experiential learning, and globally-recognized academic practices at UPES facilitate seamless credit transfers to top-ranked international academic partner universities at an affordable cost.
University Canada West website.
Germany
Bachelor of Business
• A Successful interview and
Overall 6.5 No band
BA Journalism
Entry/academic requirements are subject to revisions and are at the sole discretion of partner University.
B. Tech (Mechanical Engineering)
Bond University (Gold Coast) website.
Home
Students will be required to obtain the necessary Student Visa for studies at the Partner University. UPES will support with the necessary documents. The university shall not be liable for any delays, application rejection, or visa rejection. For Australian University, visa will be processed by an authorized Australian immigration agent – as per Australian immigration laws.
The Global Pathway Program is a pathway that provides students with an opportunity to get a degree from an International Partner University through the facilitation of Credits transfer & recognition. Students will be required to meet the entry and eligibility criteria of the International Partner University.
United Kingdom
About The Global Pathway Program
in each component; but writing
Goldsmiths, University of London - UK
https://www.vcu.edu/life-at-vcu/housing-and-dining/
of 6.0 in the writing band
50% marks at Higher
• Student need to fulfil first years academic
IELTS 6.0 (with a minimum of 5.5
Partner Universities guide you to prepare you to take the transfer.
B. Tech (Chemical Engineering)
(Civil Engineering)
Corporate
No, the Partner University fee is only the Tuition Fee. accommodation, day to day expense and any other charges/expenses as applicable will be borne by the student.
above for all courses taken at
University of Essex
OR
#
GISMA University of Applied Sciences
UPES or strong candidature for
and Corporate Communications:
BBA Events, Public Relations
The student has option to continue with UPES and complete the course.
An average grade of [“B”] or
Q 13: What will be the Tuition Fee for the Partner Program?
UPES Eligibility
than 6.0 in each module)
Portfolio/ Student Work
Q 1: What is Global Pathway Program?
General expenses include:
Minimum Eligibility
Attainment of 60%
UPES Global Pathways Program is a step towards giving exceptional international experience to students. Under the Global Pathways Program, students have the option to complete a certain portion of the course at UPES, and the balance at our academic partner universities in the UK, Germany, Australia, Canada and the USA, subject to completing the eligibility criterion of the academic partner universities.
Visa application fees
There are a lot of advantages in going through UPES.
aggregate and 50%
BA (Hons.) International Business & Management
average in Year 1 & 2
•Student must score a CGPA of 5.5
Nottingham Trent University - UK
Virginia Commonwealth
Close
The University of Queensland
Canada
Yes the student will get International post study Work Visa As an international student completing a degree, the student will be eligible to apply for a Post Study Work Permit, which is usually two years. It may vary from country to country. During a work permit, the student can live, study, work temporarily and bring immediate family members to stay.
You can visit the individual website for rough idea of cost of living at each partner University.
GPP Course
University
Global Pathway Programme
IELTS ( and / or other accepted equivalent English Proficiency Scores ) are subject to the requirement of the different Universities.
Bachelor of Engineering (Petroleum)
Q 18: Does the Partner university fee include accommodation charges?
• IELTS 6.5 (with a minimum
Q 14: Who will take care of the Visa?
Smooth changeover to overseas study destination
module require at least 6.0)
The statement should be a 500-to-750-word overview of the applicant's academic and professional accomplishments, should demonstrate a high level
MS Logistics and Supply Chain Management
English Language Requirement
scale as per the UPES
• 70/100 or 80% for any non-standard
70/100 or 80% for any non-standard scores (out of 75 or 200) in English in Higher Secondary Certificate (Standard XII grade) awarded by CBSE, ICSE and select State Boards (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala)
10+2 with 50 % aggregate
B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
• Successful completion of the
Student must have adequate funds to cover his/her cost of living and tuition for the entire year/program, with documents to show proof of funds.
UPES Global Pathways Program is a step towards giving exceptional international experience to students. Under the Global Pathways Program, students have the option to complete a certain portion of the course at UPES, and the balance at our academic partner universities in the UK, Germany, Australia, Canada or the USA, subject to completing the eligibility criterion of the academic partner universities.
(Standard XII grade) awarded by
Business and Management
minimum 50% aggregate in PCM
(Applied Petroleum Engineering)
Weekly bills
Facilitates international university application process
BA/BSc Economics
CGPA of 5.3 or more
Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical)
GISMA University of
and
BBA (GPP) Courses:
2 years at UPES and 2 years at Bond University
Global job opportunities
Q 2: Who is eligible for Global Pathway Program?
Portfolio Requirement - Students must submit their best portfolio of work (wherever applicable) to increase their chances of selection. ( only for Design students )
BA (Hons) International
United States of America
an attainment of the equivalent of
BA (Hons.) Product Design
Transport
CBSE, ISC and select State Boards
No. The GPP students (UG & PG) will not be eligible for any scholarship while studying at UPES.
Q6: Is there any English Language requirement?
Completion of 120
University Canada West - Canada
Eligibility Criteria
Q 3: What is the selection criteria for admission to UPES?
(Computer Science & Engineering)
UPES Course
to enter the graduate degree
Excursions
Tuition fees
B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
MBA (GPP):
Successful completion of the first
Academic Requirement
Liberal Studies
Eligibilty for Partner University
in Higher Secondary Certificate
GISMA School of Applied Sciences – Germany
:
Virginia Commonwealth University - USA
Partner Universities
Q 5: Do the students at UPES need specific grades/scores in the 1st and 2nd years  to qualify to study at partner University?
presentation of work/creative portfolio.
Virginia Commonwealth University
Q 23: Will, the students, be allowed to work along with study at Partner University?
(Mechanical Engineering)
Master in Business
All B.Tech.
of 5.5 in each component)
Bachelor of Engineering (Hons.) (Chemical)
BA/BSc International Economics
Why Should You Go For UPES Global Pathway Program
Q 12: What shall be the Funds required at the time of transfer?
Bachelor of Engineering (Hons.) (Mechanical)
to download the Fee Structure
two years of the UPES Course with
Communications
CGPA 7 in the 10 point
Q 9: Which university or Institute will award degree to the student?
Saves up to 45%-65% of the total cost
Global Pathway
Fee Structure
Q 16: What if the visa gets rejected?
B. Tech
The programs at UPES are carefully synced with those at academic partner universities, to ensure that aspects of study are not repeated and students gain the advantage on academics. Upon successful completion of course at the Partner University and complying with all academic criteria, the student receives a degree from the international partner university.
Partner University
requirement in UPES.
NTU and private accommodation
BBA (GPP)
Scholarships AY 2024
MSc Leadership for Digital Transformation
UPES Entrance Exam followed by Personal Interview
Statement of Purpose - The statement should be a 500 to 750 word overview of the applicant's academic and professional accomplishments and should demonstrate a high level of interest in and a highly developed understanding of their choice. Students should state intended focus, as well as personal and professional goals and give reason(s) for applying & long-term career plans. Details guidelines of SOP for respective Academic Partner University will be shared along with Application form / announcement.
in each component)
less than 5.5
Food
Eligibility for Partner University
Bachelor of Business Management
Students must have a valid English language score (as applicable) at the time of applying to the partner academic institution.
Club memberships
Business
and 50% in Graduation
Bachelor of Business Program
The fees of the academic year of admission at Partner University shall be applicable.
The student shall have to furnish the following documents and clear personal interview.
Load More
Completion of Credits
University of Queensland
BA/BSc Management Economics
FAQS
Goldsmiths, University
Goldsmiths, University of London website.
B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)
Bachelor of Technology (Applied Petroleum Engineering)
CGPA 6 or more
10+2 with 50% aggregate
Q 7: Will the student get post study work visa?
.International students registered on a full-time education course lasting at least one academic year can work part-time. Students having Visa can work:
Program
#2 years at UPES and 2 years at Nottingham Trent University
University of Aberdeen
Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC)
UK
Engineering
Option to study at top-ranked universities in the UK, Germany, Australia, Canada or the USA
MS Decision Analytics
MS Finance l MS
University of Aberdeen website.
Student must have adequate funds to cover their cost of living and tuition for the entire year, with documents to show proof of funds.
Bachelor of Technology (Mechanical Engineering)
& Senior Secondary level
Bachelor of Engineering (Hons.) (Software)
equivalent;
USA
Every student will also have to consider both study costs and general expenses. Study costs include:
Bond University
GISMA University of Applied Sciences website.
Funds
University of Queensland – Australia
UPES Entrance Exam
UPES Programme
B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
B.Des Communication and Media Design - Graphics
Click here
B.Tech. Courses:
The student will be awarded degree from international Partner university on successful completion of the course at that university.
Q 11: What will be the entry requirement for the Partner University?
Statement of Purpose (SOP)
The Department of International Affairs (DIA), UPES, facilitates the credit transfer process. Upon completion of studies at the partner university, the students can apply for a post study work visa, based upon the requirements of the destination country..
in Graduation
The student can confirm their interest in the program within the first year so that they can have various interventions like grooming as per the requirement of the partner university, interaction with officials of partner university whenever they are on campus, support for English language and any other areas required . However, the student will have to satisfy the entry/academic requirements of Partner universities.
The programs at UPES are carefully synced with those at academic partner universities, to ensure that aspects of study are not repeated and students gain the advantage on academics. Upon successful completion of course at the Partner University and complying with all academic criteria, the student receives a degree from the international partner university and a diploma/certificate from UPES as per the UGC guidelines.
Overall 6.5 No band less than 6
All BA
Bachelor of Technology (Civil Engineering)
Programmes Available
Australia
grading scale or better.
University of Essex website.
2 years at UPES and 2 years at University of Aberdeen
IELTS B2 Level; 6.5
applying and long-term career plans. Detailed guidelines of SOP for respective partner university will be shared along with application form/announcement.
BA Business Economics
MS Marketing Management
equivalent of a CGPA of
MBA
The Students should have completed the required semesters at UPES with the CGPA requirements as per the partner University. However, a student with backlog or any disciplinary complaints against them will not have any preferential consideration for admission and such admission, if any, shall be a conditional admission.
Communication (Digital)
BA Promotional Media
1 year at UPES and final year at Virginia Commonwealth University
B.Des. Courses
2 years at UPES and 2 year at University of Queensland for B.Tech.
2 years at UPES and 2 years at Goldsmiths, University of London
Global Pathways
(Class 10 & 12)
*2 years at UPES and 1 year at Nottingham Trent University
Documents as per the Application form of the Partner University.
Social activities
program at VCU
B. Tech (Electrical Engineering)
Q 20: Is there any advantage of going through UPES ?
Design
Q 19: How do students’ apply to these Partner Universities?
BBA (GPP)*
B.Des Communication and Media Design - Animation & VFX
You only do half the tenure of the course at the Partner University and you get the degree from the partner University ( through the Global Pathway Program).
Bachelor of Engineering (Civil)
MSc International Business Management
credits at Level 4 or
Bachelor of Engineering (Hons.) (Electrical)
Partner Univ. Programme
years academic requirement in UPES.
scores (out of 75 or 200) in English
Selection Criteria for UPES
Personal Interview
2 years at UPES and final year at University of Essex
Communication (Digital):
University Canada West
To know more, visit
Goldsmiths, University of London
Most Partner Universities give special partnership discounts if they apply through UPES. Students will get anything between 12 to 25% of their tuition fee.
Q 21. Who bears the travel and accommodation charges?
Student need to fulfil all other requirements
Students will be notified by the UPES - Department of International Affairs (DIA), regarding application procedure. Students will be required to submit their interest to avail the opportunity once announced. The Process will be facilitated by DIA.
(with a minimum of 5.5
Q 15: What will be the role of UPES in the entire process?
B.Des Industrial and Product Design
Q 10: When does a student have to decide about taking Global Pathway Program option?
Course materials
2 years at UPES and 1 year at University of Queensland for BBA.
Students must submit their best work portfolio (wherever applicable) to increase their chances of selection.
Course with an attainment of the
at UPES
Important Information
MSc Data Science, AI, and Digital Business
All B.Des.
For MBA ( Global ) the selection will be basis Personal Interviews only.
first 2 years of the UPES
MBA (GPP)
a CGPA of 8 out of 10
In most of the universities requirement of IELTS is 6.5 or above (with a minimum of 6.0 in each component).
Management
1 year at UPES and 1 year at University of Queensland for MBA
work along with study
(Class 10 & 12) and
Students may choose campus accommodation at the partner university (subject to availability).
1 year at UPES and final year at University Canada West
Flights