School Of Design
Tanisha Kaura
Academic
Home
The Department of International Affairs (DIA) supports student mobility from and to UPES. International exposure helps enhance the student's personal growth as they become competent in tackling various challenges during the journey. At UPES Global Mobility Desk, students experience world class services on their Global Journey. Learning by living in a new culture comes with its own challenges; overcoming them increases one’s confidence and belief in one’s abilities. This helps students acquire knowledge in worldly matters, which is extremely important in today’s dynamic world. UPES has collaborated with top-ranking universities across the globe to provide the best education experience to our students. With more than 50 partner universities across the globe and 4 active associations with international bodies, UPES provides excellent exchange opportunities.
Global Pathway
The programs at UPES are carefully synced with those at academic partner universities, to ensure that aspects of study are not repeated and students gain an advantage in academics. Upon successful completion of the course at the partner university and complying with all academic criteria, the student receives a degree from the international partner university.
Close
Animesh Asthana
The international faculty also visit UPES to connect with the students and enhance their overall learning experience.
Semester Abroad Program
UPES Global Pathway Program is a step towards giving exceptional international experience to students. Under the Global Pathway Program, students have the option to complete a certain portion of the course at UPES, and the balance at our academic partner universities (in the UK, Germany, Australia, Canada and the US) subject to completing the eligibility criterion of the academic partner universities.
At UPES, we believe that every student and staff should have an opportunity to gain international exposure. We intend to achieve this through international student mobility, hosting international faculty and thought leaders at the UPES campus, promoting online collaboration between students of various institutes and universities, promoting joint research between faculties, increasing institutional collaboration through MoU and participating in international academic events.
Overview
Eligibility Criteria
Co-Teaching
University
Global University
The university’s international collaborations for international credit transfer, semester exchange, semester abroad, and virtual programs are designed to unlock the student's potential and foster a globally-inclusive and interconnected academic community that prioritises cross-cultural learning and understanding. We strive to empower our students, faculty, and staff to engage in meaningful international experiences, collaborations and partnerships.
We offer Student & Faculty Exchange program. Student Exchange happens between UPES and partner universities twice a year. Faculty Exchange program is open through special calls.
DIA, UPES provides different internship and research opportunities to UPES and our partner universities students. Under this program, UPES students can go for internship or a project to partner university and UPES welcome students of the partner university for the same. Students get opportunities for Virtual Internships with Indiana University, USA & University of Auckland, New Zealand, World Design Organisation, International certification programs from LSBF, UK and many more.
Syed Mohd Raza Taqvi
School Of Business
Interaction with faculty from different cultural backgrounds leads to enhanced awareness of the world, improved communication, critical thinking, and thought-processing skills. Students become more empathetic and innovative in their approach to building solutions.
International Academic Collaborations
Global
Exchange Programs
The international academic office, UPES, facilitates the credit transfer process. Upon completion of studies at the partner university, the students can apply for a post-study work visa, based on the rules of the destination country.
The semester abroad program at UPES allows students to study for a defined period at an international university. These programs are designed to provide students with a chance to experience a new academic environment, culture, and educational system while continuing to make progress toward their degree. They provide an invaluable opportunity for students to broaden their horizons, gain unique experiences, and enhance their personal and professional growth.
UPES students have the unique advantage of learning from the faculty of partner universities. Co-teaching enables students to learn from distinguished faculty hailing from different parts of the world. Diversity in education has a direct impact on the students, benefitting them academically and socially. UPES offers an education that is both global and inclusive so students are better prepared for a complex and pluralistic society.
Global Pathway Program
Student Testimonials
Collaborative Projects
Read more
UPES has partnered with the University of California (UC) Berkeley to expand students’ prospects of international exposure and study-abroad programs. This academic collaboration will enable UPES students to study for a semester.
The extensive curriculum, experiential learning, and globally-recognised academic practices at UPES facilitate seamless credit transfers to top-ranked international academic partner universities at an affordable cost.