Hydropower
Themes
Research Fellow
Sensor data can be used to create real-time risk assessments, allowing authorities to take preventive measures like evacuation or road closures before a disaster strikes.
Aligned with our mission to balance economic growth, cultural preservation, and environmental conservation, HILL is committed to strengthening society in the Himalayan region. We focus on facilitating collaborative research and innovation to tackle pressing challenges, while also supporting the sustainable development of the region’s assets through targeted studies and interventions. By building local capacity and fostering a culture of continuous learning, we aim to create a harmonious balance between progress and preservation, ensuring a resilient and thriving future for the Himalayan region.
Disaster management and mitigation
Mr. Mukesh Kestwal
Founder Director HILL Institute
+91 7579216817
Investing the Black carbon Trajectories and  radiative effects across varied Glacial Landscapes  in UK’s Himalayas
Mrs. Kiran Negi
PI: Dr. Amit Awasthi, Applied Science Cluster
Preservation of heritage
Research and documentation of the selu bimal fiber craft of karchaa
Real-time monitoring for rapid response:
Mr. Himanshu Mamgain
for marketing.
Avalanches
Geo-spatial maps of these AMR indices will help to identify hotspots, visualize seasonal trends, patterns and transmission routes in the study area. Such an approach will inform policymakers and enable better management of AMR in the environment.
jkpandey@ddn.upes.ac.in
Infrastructure Development and Capacity Building:
Wireless sensor networks will provide continuous data on critical factors like rainfall intensity, soil moisture, and ground movement, enabling early detection of flash floods and landslides.
Data-driven decision making:
Isolation, selection, and characterization of thermophilic bacteria from hot springs of Uttarakhand
Contact Us
Understanding the biogeochemistry of the hot springs.
Hill Fellow
Mr. Himanshu Prasad Mamgain
Gallery
Foster partnerships among local, regional, and international institutions to address pressing local and global challenges through innovative research and solutions.
Sustainable Waste Solutions for Uttarkashi: A Comprehensive Plastic and Biodegradable Waste Management Approach
Agricultural production
PI: Vikas Thapa, Industrial Design, School of Design
Water shedding
PI:  Dr. Surajit Mondal, Electrical Cluster
Optimization of uses of natural resources
Mr. Kartik Singh
Herbal products
Product diversification of the craft and create a new product line using the skills and traditional knowledge of the artisans and community.
Our Vision
Objectives
as a community based craft
Close
Linking villages to city to
Events
Main Study in this project, will explore the potentiality and future scope of geosites formed from Palaeoproterozoic to Recent (Quaternary and Holocene) within Uttrakhand Himalaya.
Address: Village Shuklapur, P.O. Ambiwala Via-Prem Nagar, Dehradun, Uttarakhand , India
Integrated Waste Management System:
Dr. Ram Sharma
Sustainable  promotion for
Qualitative Assessment of Geo-Sites and Geo-Heritage potential of Himalayan Region: A Geo-tourism Promotion and its Conservation.
Himalayan Institute for Learning and Leadership
Our Mission
Kartik.singh@ddn.upes.ac.in
Understanding the variability and radiative impact of aerosols over central Himalayan region. The research combines modelling techniques, satellite observations, and field measurements to investigate the ways in which black carbon affects regional climate dynamics and interacts with glacial systems.
Mr. Krishna Kanta Samanta
Capacity building
Women empowerment through
+91 8192081921
Through this project and study : Geotourism promotion of the Uttrakhand,  will enhance the value of the state and regional tourism industry
Forest waste to wealth
The project aims to implement an integrated waste management system in Uttarkashi city, encompassing waste collection, segregation, transportation, treatment, and disposal. This holistic approach ensures efficient handling of both degradable and plastic waste, reducing environmental pollution and health risks.
Projects
Forest Fires
Leadership Development initiatives
Entrepreneurship in the Region
HILL, the Himalayan Institute for Learning and Leadership, is dedicated to fostering sustainable solutions for the complex challenges faced in the Himalayan region. By promoting collaboration between academia, R&D institutions, and local communities, HILL aims to drive innovative solutions that address both local and global issues. Through a blend of cutting-edge research, capacity-building initiatives, and effective knowledge sharing, HILL seeks to empower communities and support the sustainable management of natural resources. Our approach integrates advanced technological interventions with a deep respect for the region’s unique socio-economic and ecological context.
Earthquake
Team
Develop strategies and initiatives that simultaneously promote economic growth, cultural preservation, and environmental conservation in the Himalayan region.
Glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs)
Community Engagement and Awareness:
Designing and Installation of the Scheffler type Solar Collector to attain the desirable temperature, which will collect the heat from the sunlight and focus it to the targeted area where the water will absorb the heat collected and precipitate the Calcium from the water.
PI: Dr. Uday Bhan , Professor & Program Lead [Energy Cluster]
Adventure Tourism
The project focuses on infrastructure development, including waste collection centers, recycling units, and composting facilities. Additionally, capacity building programs for waste management workers, entrepreneurs, and community members enhance skills and promote sustainable employment opportunities.
Himalaya calling is coming on 9th September 2024
Design of Heat Exchange System and Filtration Chamber to remove the undesirable calcium hardness found in the drinkable spring water.
Join Now
A Study of the Bhimal Fiber craft of Himalayan region and mapping opportunities for intervention in existing design and diversification of existing products for village-based communities
To promote community self-reliance through technological interventions for the sustainable management and utilization of natural resources.
Hill
Using an innovative microtiter plate-based assay and by employing an array of broad-spectrum antibiotics, we at UPES, are now rapidly screening various environmental samples to develop ‘AMR  indices’ that can be conveniently mapped geo-spatially.
HILL
Mrs. Himani Purohit
Mr. Rakesh Kumar
Supply chain management
Contact:
Hill Manager
AMR surveillance in this context is crucial to obtain an understanding of the connections to be addressed by several nations by implementing national action policies based on the One Health strategy. Our preliminary findings, contribute to highlighting the increment of AMR related to different microbes with the tendency to become multidrug resistant.
Spirituality in Modern Culture
Synergy of Yoga and Modern Sciences
PI: Dr Suvendu Manna, Assistant Professor - Selection Grade
training on locally grown products
Introduction
PI: Dr. Piyush Kumar
Symbiosis of self-help groups
To build a compact Solar Thermal Water Purification system for the rural hilly areas, Self-Sustainable Technology and villagers will be operating.
minimize the migration
Vice Chancellor, UPES
Effluents and aquatic bodies are major conduits for the transmission of AMR in the environment. Our study aims to conduct high-throughput screening of AMR from various effluent and aquatic bodies in the Doon Valley, an important drainage area of several Himalayan rivers and tributaries.
Digitalization
Alliances
Landslides
To map the existing traditional craft of Bhimal fiber in Uttrakahand
High Throughput screening of anti-microbial resistance from environmental samples of Doon Valley for geo-spatial mapping
Home
Organic food
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a growing public health concern worldwide, and it poses a significant threat to human, animal, and environmental health. Multiple drivers, including warming temperatures due to climate change, metals and pollutants in water bodies, pharmaceutical and industry effluents, and not just the occurrence or increased usage of antimicrobials in hospital settings, can contribute to the evolution of AMR in the environment.
Dr. Jitendra K. Pandey
Early detection of flash flood and landslide using wireless sensor networks for Himalayan region
Screening of isolated bacteria for industrially important thermophilic enzyme and other secondary metabolites
Human & Wildlife  interactions
PI: Khushboo bharti – School of Design – communication cluster
The Himalyan region is full of glaciers, palaeontological, archaeological, geothermal spring, limestone caves, and mineral potential.
Improved preparedness in remote areas:
PI: Dr. Prashant Shukla
UPES-Dehradun
Strengthening society to balance economic growth, cultural preservation, and environmental conservation in the Himalayan region.,Facilitate collaborative research and innovation to address local and global challenges.,To support the sustainable development of the socio-economic and ecological assets of the Himalayan Region through innovative studies and knowledge interventions.,Empowering society through capacity-building initiatives
HESCO (Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization)
Our Mission and Vision
Capacity building initiatives to empower communities, enhancing their skills and knowledge for sustainable development.
Ayurveda and Wellness
Eligibility Criteria
Flash floods
HILL aims to achieve sustainable solutions for the challenges in the Himalayan region by fostering collaboration between academia, R&D institutions, and society through innovative solutions, capacity-building initiatives, and knowledge sharing.
Riverbank Pollution
Central to the project is community engagement and awareness. Through extensive awareness campaigns, educational workshops, and involvement in waste management decisions, local residents are empowered to adopt responsible waste disposal practices, contributing to a cleaner environment and improved public health.
The Himalayan region often has limited infrastructure. This technology can be deployed in remote locations, offering crucial warnings where traditional monitoring systems are lacking.
Skill development for self employment
Integration of Solar Tracking Technology with Water Treatment Systems for Rural Communities in Hilly Terrain: A Design and Optimization Approach
Himanshu.mamgain@ddn.upes.ac.in
Exploration of the Himalayan hot-springs for the isolation of  industrially important thermo-enzyme producing microbes
Padma Shri Dr. Anil Prakash Joshi