#
Take A Tour
An entrepreneur, a TED Fellow, an Ashoka Associate Fellow, and an angel investor holding qualifications from esteemed institutions like NIT, IRMA, Harvard University, and Oxford University.
Student Excellence
Our Schools
Read More - Entrepreneurship
Commit to a future of equal opportunities, and sustainability with our diverse social initiatives.
An alumnus of IIT Madras and Florida Institute of Technology, Prof. Vijayshekhar is a recipient of US NSF CAREER and TCS Distinguished Researcher awards.
Kandoli
A Chevening Gurukul Fellow at the University of Oxford and also a Fulbright Nehru Scholar at the University of California, Berkeley where,
Academic Excellence
Dr. Amrish Tony
UPES alumni from the 2005-2006 batch, representing top organizations, revisited the campus after years, reminiscing about their journey.
Literature Fest
Faculty
View All
Dr. Ram K Sharma
Private University in Academic Reputation in India, QS World University Rankings, 2025
Read More - Dr. Ram K Sharma
Get ready to vibe with UPES at the coolest Women's Bike Rally ever!
Tie-ups with global universities
your own
Dr. Padma has 31+ years of experience in Microbiology, Biochemistry, Phytochemistry, Ayurveda and Public Health
Tomorrow
Design Leader with over 22 years of experience in institution building, teaching, and action research.  He is committed to empowering the next generation of designers & innovators to create meaningful and impactful solutions to the world’s most pressing problems.
Dean, School of Design
View all
Read More - Prof. Atri Nautiyal
Placements in 2021-22*
September 29, 2024
Entrepreneurship
Read More - Prof. Bhaskar Bhatt
Law Fest
Vidhi Utsav left us spellbound with its thought-provoking workshops , captivating performances, and a kaleidoscope of cultural delights.
Postgraduate
21
Customise the program to suit your interests, skills and career goals
Student Outcomes
Read More - Dr. Amrish Tony
Placements
Innovative ideas, lifelong learning and a global perspective.
Read More - Prof. Vijaysekhar Chellaboina
Alumni Achievements
Women's Bike Rally
Read More - Dr. Abhishek Sinha
Start-ups have received grants from UPES
Rank in India in the University category, NIRF 2024
Prof. Bhaskar Bhatt
LPA Highest CTC in 2022*
Director, School of Liberal Studies
A vibrant and inclusive community fostering personal growth, academic and extracurricular pursuits and meaningful relationships.
Law Leadership Event
Over 300 UPES Bangalore Chapter alumni reunited for a memorable evening with top industry professionals and entrepreneurs.
100%
70
November 28-29, 2024
Design
Read More - Dr. Padma Venkat
At UPES, we foster a vibrant and dynamic ecosystem.
*In School of Computer Science
Dr. Abhishek Sinha
Undergraduate
Campus Life
ICMLDE 3.0
Purpose
The two-day conference, in collaboration with Elsevier, University of Dayton, and Providence University, attracted 3,800+ contributors from 47 countries.
Get ready to become global citizens of the future with exclusive international collaborations.
Runway Incubator provides access to resources, mentorship, funding, networking opportunities and bus...
March 8, 2024
Freshers 2024 was all about creating memories and friendships that will last a lifetime!
Tucked away in the hills of misty Dehradun, the serene, quiet, campuses at Bidholi and Kandoli are ideal places for a truly immersive learning experience.
Watch Now
Watch as we celebrate a vibrant night of Garba and colorful ethnic outfits during Dholida 2024!
How it Works
1
Load More
Dean, School of Health Sciences and Technology
Homecoming - Alumni Meet
Start-up University
Read More - Placements
With over a decade of experience in sports management and coaching. He holds a Ph.D. in Physical Education, an M.Phil. in Sports Science, and a Master's in Physical Education, alongside a certification as a Professional Sports Coach in Swimming from the Sports Authority of India.
Global University
Prof. Vijaysekhar Chellaboina
Adapt or Perish -
June 29, 2024
Customise Now
Our Career Services team works with a well-defined systematic process of meeting students’ career as...
Prof. Atri Nautiyal has worked within major North American Financial Institutions. He has over 10 years of experience in teaching and research in the domain of economics, environment, and displacements.
January 25, 2025
University of
L’Arte Dell’Auto
Vice Chancellor, UPES
Director, Sports
Alumni Meet - Bangalore Chapter
Freshers 2024
Stories of Excellence
With the world’s best institutions as our partners, students stand to gain exceptional international...
Student Achievements
75
50
Read More - Higher Education
Dholida 2024
Doctoral
September 28, 2024
Prof. Atri Nautiyal
Read More - Prof. Rahul Nainwal
A highly celebrated dual qualified corporate lawyer. Being Partner at leading law firms such as Khaitan & Co., Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas
Dean, School of Computer Science
Pursue excellence in learning that accelerates career growth opportunities by way of top placements and entrepreneurial mentoring.
Ukti -
Years of legacy in multidisciplinary and holistic learning
Faculty Achievements
February 24 - 27, 2025
Experience an immersive, personalised learning environment with accomplished, globally-acclaimed and award-winning academicians.
Read More
The thought leadership event "Adapt or Perish" brought together industry leaders, academicians, and senior law alumni to explore the evolution of legal education in a tech-driven world.
Aaj Ki Rani -
Campus Buzz
April 13 - 14, 2024
UKTI wasn’t just a literary fest but a reason to celebrate our culture, which is long forgotten in the hustle of the contemporary world.
degree
Vidhi Utsav -
Dr. Padma Venkat
Prof. Rahul Nainwal
April 5 - 7, 2024
Director, School of Business
Bidholi
Transform your business idea into reality with globally-acclaimed expertise under our unique incubator program – ‘Runway’
December 21-22, 2024
46
Higher Education
Dean, School of Law
Know More