Home
Opportunity to participate in nationwide Hackathon on emerging techs and win fabulous prizes.
Close
Micro-credentials: Take a quiz at end of each learning pathway to check your understanding and win badges every time you successfully complete a piece of learning & flaunt it in your social network
Nasscom
Internship opportunities by CISCO, Salesforce, and Microsoft for committed and ambitious students
A premier trade body and chamber of commerce of the Tech industry in India and comprises over 3000 member companies including both Indian and multinational organizations that have a presence in India. It is a not-for-profit industry association, and is the apex body for the $227 billion dollar IT-BPM industry in India, an industry that had made a phenomenal contribution to India's GDP, exports, employment, infrastructure and global visibility.
https://futureskillsprime.in/
What’s in it for learners?
Visit: -
Opportunity to participate in 3 hours Master class on technologies like AI, Cloud etc. conducted by Microsoft and AWS.
NASSCOM
Eligibility Criteria
Courses aligned to the curriculum developed by the Industry & approved by Govt. – Provided by best-in-class training and technology providers. All the courses listed in the catalogue are available at no cost (for a limited time)
Free & Short learning pathways of ~30 mins duration curated by industry experts for both techies and non-techies that ensure relevance to what learners really need to know when on the job.
Government of India incentive scheme for learners for a refund of a certain amount for paid course completion and a refund of assessment fees once candidates pass the government certification exam.
Support in final placement for students completing certain courses on specific technologies
Industry Connect
UPES partnership with NASSCOM will allow students and alumni access to 155+ courses in IT, Manufacturing, Healthcare, Telecom, Banking, Agri-Business, Automotive, and several other sectors. There are also advanced-level courses for the students and alumni
Collaboration for us would mean access to 155+ courses in IT, Manufacturing, Healthcare, Telecom, Banking, Agri-Business, Automotive and several other sectors.