UPES School of Computer Science organised an industry visit to Bengaluru
23 students and two faculty members were a part of the industrial tour. Students were given an understanding of the various specifications of Programmable Logic Controller (PLC), software used to operate the PLC, various hardware inside the PLC and different types of PLCs developed by Siemens to date. A session on different types of sensors, various instruments used in Siemens, control loop and different types of the control loop, analog processor and Siemens sensors configuration was held.
Home
UPES School of Engineering students visited Cyient Limited, TATA Advance Systems and Defense Research and Development Laboratory (DRDO) Hyderabad in the year 2020. 53 students along with three faculty members were a part of this industrial tour. A session was held on the importance and scope of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the forthcoming years. Students were introduced to AR and VR products that were developed by Cyient. Students got the opportunity to witness its functionality as well. Students also got an insight into Metal Additive Manufacturing. Scientists at DRDL guided students about the projects they have been working on and the operating procedures of high-speed tunnels. Students got the opportunity to witness Water Tunnel for testing of Torpedo.
Close
Scientists at DRDL guided students about the projects they have been working on and the operating procedures of high-speed tunnels. Students got the opportunity to witness Water Tunnel for testing of Torpedo.
Industry visit for UPES Computer Science students to enhance learning
Students from B.Tech CSE with specialisation in DevOps visited Xebia Gurugram. 43 students accompanied by three faculty members were a part of this industrial tour.
Industry Visit for UPES School of Design students
UPES students from Transportation and Product Design went to Hero MotoCorp Ltd., Bajaj Auto Ltd., Wipro Ltd and Suzuki Motor Corporation in the year 2015. This industrial tour allowed students to know about the machines, how various techniques are used to get optimum results and the kind of resources available at a factory.
SCHOOL OF DESIGN
Industry Visits
UPES School of Design students visit automobile industries in Bengaluru
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Eligibility Criteria
Engineering students visit Marwar Super Group, Rajasthan
Mechanical Engineering students visit SIEMENS Ltd.
Aerospace Engineering students visit industry giants for exposure
16 students and two faculty members from Department of Petroleum Engineering and Earth Sciences visited Marwar Super Group, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. Geoscientists discussed significant recent discoveries and issues related to the evolution of the Neoproterozoic-Cambrian lithosphere, biosphere and results of their interaction.
SCHOOL OF ADVANCED ENGINEERING
Industry Visit for UPES Computer Science students
88 students from M.Design in Transportation and Product and Bachelor of Fine Arts visited IFB Appliances and Mozaic, Goa in the year 2018. This educational tour gave students industry exposure to help them generate ideas on innovative, sustainable and ethical products for society.
Students of B. Tech CSE with specialization in Graphics and Gaming, Department of Virtualization went to NxtGen Infinite Data Center, Bidadi Industrial Area, Bengaluru. There were panel discussions on cyber-security, jobs vs entrepreneurship and Internet of Things(IoT).
UPES Design students visit IFB and Mozaic
Around 70 students with two faculty members went to Sun Mobility Pvt. Ltd. Bengaluru for an excursion. Industry experts shared their views about servers, networking parts and showed them various devices. Students also paid a visit to Gurukool, Bengaluru. In the panel discussion industry experts, students and faculty Mr. Saurabh Shanu shared his views on “The tectonic shift in technology—from West to East” while Mr. Pankaj Badoni shed light on “New working model—jobs of the new generation”.
In the year 2014, twenty students from M. Design Transportation went to TVS Motors, HCL Technologies and Tata Elxsi Ltd. Bangalore. Students had an overview of how automobile industries create designs of their new models, manufacturing process and final launch of the product. This helped students understand how a design can be transformed from an idea to reality.