#
Apply Now
Pay your Application Fee
Please make enquiries at the Indian Consulate/Embassy /High Commission in your country /country of application to ascertain the correct procedure and time necessary to obtain a visa valid for the term of study of your program at UPES.
for guidance and bank details.
Students from SAARC countries - Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and non-resident Indians (NRI as defined above) of these countries will pay fees in line with domestic students. However, they are classified as international students and gain admittance through the international pathway.
Alternatively, you may make a bank transfer:
4. Make sure that you have taken all the required vaccinations like Typhoid Vaccine, Hepatitis Vaccine, etc. to avoid medical complications while you are in India. Please take advice from your local Indian Embassy/Consulate.
Pre-Arrival Guidelines
2. Computing Device: Each incoming student must be equipped with a laptop conforming to the minimum specifications of UPES.
Admissions
Students should make sure about the following points before leaving their home country
3. UPES is 155 miles drive from Delhi International Airport and you need to book your ticket to Delhi International Airport and connect to Dehradun airport.
It is recommended that students have the following:
• UPES must be satisfied that candidates applying for admission to undergraduate programs must have obtained a higher secondary / ‘A’ Level/ Class 12 certificate (with a minimum percentage of marks as prescribed) and taken requisite courses necessary to meet the eligibility criteria for admission to the program of choice.
and click on the International / NRI tab on the application form.
The city also has a rich history. It has been home to some of the great artists and writers such as Stephen Alter, Nayantara Sahgal, Allan Sealy and Ruskin Bond, among others.
About Dehradun
3. Students will report to the International Relations Division along with all the required documents and interact with the reporting officer.
+
Issuance of Offer Letter/Visa Letter
international.admissions@upes.ac.in
Fee Structure
to know more about the NRI Admission Fees
Close
International
On successful application submission, the University shall assess the student’s documents for eligibility for the course for which they have applied. If approved, an offer of admission letter/visa letter will be issued to the applicant.
Definition of International / NRI Student
To complete the UPES online application, Click on the link:
UPES offers scholarships on tuition fees to international students which is based on performance in their qualifying examinations. Students wishing to avail this scholarship must send their transcripts/ certificates to
The plethora of choices in terms of the sheer number of colleges and universities in Dehradun has transformed it into a leading education hub in the country.
International Admissions
School of Business: MBA programs: GMAT score of 600
20
Scholarship
6. Students who arrive to take admission later than the mandated time for this process may be denied admission.
School of Advanced Engineering
Private University in Academic Reputation in India, QS World University Rankings, 2024
• For admission to a postgraduate program at UPES, the equivalence for the undergraduate degree earned by the candidate in his/her country shall be obtained from the Association of Indian Universities (AIU). In certain cases, students may be requested to obtain the necessary certification from AIU in this regard.
Student Stories
9. Whilst everything is available in India, try to get all that you would require during the initial few days. All the essentials can be availed from the University tuck shops as well as markets situated in a range of about 5 km from the UPES Campus.
1
1. Visas: International students who wish to study in India must obtain a Student Visa before travelling to India.
NOTE: Parents/Guardians resident outside India have the option to sponsor their wards who have passed their secondary/university education in India through the international pathway.
dsmith@upes.ac.in
However, students holding Indian passports but having qualified for higher Secondary examination/UG degree or equivalent from a foreign country will be classified as international and apply as international students.
Please connect with
5. Students have to report to the International Relations Division (IRD) for Medical check-ups and to collect their Medical Insurance Cards.
7. It is the prime responsibility of the student to visit the International Relations Department in time to complete the required documentation so that no fine is levied against him/her.
Students from non-English speaking countries should satisfy UPES that they have adequate proficiency in English to be able to undertake the program of their choice. If required, an undertaking from such students shall be taken to undergo the English language training for a specific period (depending on the proficiency to be assessed by UPES on arrival) before starting the actual program of admission. Qualifying for TOEFL/IELTS or equivalent may not be mandatory but strongly advised.
Complete the Online Application
7. You can carry all your money in the form of Travellers Cheques which can be easily redeemed at the airport as well as a number of foreign exchange offices and banks or you can use International Debit / Credit Cards.
International / NRI Admissions at UPES
Endowed with labels such as the ‘Eton of the East’ and ‘The School Capital of India’, Dehradun prides itself on its educational institutions that have given the country great personalities and visionaries of the calibre of Rajiv Gandhi, Abhinav Bindra, and Amitav Ghosh. It is famous for institutions such as the Doon School, Welham Girls’ School, Rashtriya Indian Military College, Forest Research Institute, The Zoological Survey of India, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology and many more. The popular tourist destinations in the district offer a variety of adventure sports, including paragliding, river rafting, bungee jumping, and ice skating. The salubrious surroundings of Dehradun make it an ideal destination for those looking for an academic career far removed from the urban jungle.
An applicant holding a passport from any country other than India is defined as an International student.
Programs offered across 7 schools
Being close to the hills, Dehradun offers plenty of options for weekend getaways and exhilarating road trips. The tourist spots offer adventure sports, camping, trekking and hiking options. Besides, there are several engineering marvels such as dams, canals, waterways and power plants for those wanting to combine learning with fun.
1. Registration: International students are required by law to register with the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO)/ local police authorities as per regulation of the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. At present, this must be within 14 days of arrival in India but please check this information with the Consulate/Embassy/High Commission in your country of application before departure as these rules are subject to change.
• Students must fulfil minimum eligibility requirements as laid down for their chosen program at UPES.
Students should make sure about the following points after arriving in India
Students can request assistance from UPES for preliminary registration formalities in Dehradun.
5. Make sure you inform UPES International Relations Division requesting an airport pickup at least two weeks before arrival and provide the complete details of the flight.
Home
Students must comply with visa rules and registration requirements and keep abreast of any changes.  Accordingly, students are responsible for ensuring that their visas are valid throughout their study at UPES and for maintaining their registration with the FRRO/local police.
Students must possess a valid passport for the duration of study.
School of Computer Science Undergraduate programs: Valid SAT score Postgraduate programs: GRE Score of 1700 (cumulative).
for eligibility assessment.
The topography of Dehradun makes it a perfect place for learning. With the majestic Himalayas in the backdrop, breathtaking sunsets, pleasant breeze and a tranquil environment, Dehradun is located 2200 feet above sea level and has a moderate temperature throughout the year. The UPES campus at Bhidoli and Kandoli has an Air Quality Index of less than 50 which is great for those looking for a pollution-free atmosphere.
Admission Process
10. The electric standard in India works on 240 V. So, ensure that you have an adapter for your mobile or laptop if it operates on a different voltage in your country. Also, the electric sockets are 2 or 3 pins so ensure that you carry a converter in case required.
Eligibility Criteria
Years of legacy in multidisciplinary and holistic learning
4. The documents will be checked and verified by IRD staff. Students will fill out the registration form and submit the required documents after reading them carefully to get registered in the respective programs.
200
Post-Arrival Guidelines
15
Click here
2. After reaching Dehradun Airport, UPES will arrange airport pickup for students who have shared their flight details with the International Relations Division.
8. Temperature ranges between 30 to 45 degrees Celsius during summers and 5 to 25 degrees Celsius during winters. Here the winter season starts around November so the warm material (blankets, quilts, woollens, etc.) must be brought accordingly.
Countries making UPES a multi-cultural campus
Student Information
When you submit your online application, you will be assessed a USD50 non-refundable application processing fee through the Credit/Debit Card payment gateway.
6. Make sure that you bring the Offer of Admission Letter issued by the University along with all the Certificates/Degrees and Transcripts (in original) and 15 passport-size photographs.