School Of Design
Tanisha Kaura
INTERNATIONAL CONNECT (DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS)
The Department of International Affairs (DIA) supports student mobility from and to UPES. International exposure helps enhance the student's personal growth as they become competent in tackling various challenges during the journey. At UPES Global Mobility Desk, students experience world class services on their Global Journey. Learning by living in a new culture comes with its own challenges; overcoming them increases one’s confidence and belief in one’s abilities. This helps students acquire knowledge in worldly matters, which is extremely important in today’s dynamic world. UPES has collaborated with top-ranking universities across the globe to provide the best education experience to our students. With more than 50 partner universities across the globe and 4 active associations with international bodies, UPES provides excellent exchange opportunities.
Home
Close
Animesh Asthana
By providing access to the best and most knowledgeable teachers and scholars from across the world through co-teaching, UPES is preparing its students to cultivate a constant openness to new shifts and novel ideas. Faculty from the leading universities like University of Canada West, INT Israel, UE Germany and The University of Law, UK are teaching at UPES.
Click Here
Eligibility Criteria
Co-Teaching
Policy for Global Programs:
Study Abroad Opportunities With University Of California Berkeley
We offer Student & Faculty Exchange program. Student Exchange happens between UPES and partner universities twice a year. Faculty Exchange program is open through special calls.
Read More
International Credit Transfer Program
Syed Mohd Raza Taqvi
School Of Business
The International Credit Transfer Program is a step towards giving exceptional international experience to students. Under this program, students complete a part of their course at UPES, and the rest at partner universities in the UK, Germany, Canada or Australia.
Exchange Programs
DIA, UPES provides different internship and research opportunities to UPES and our partner universities students. Under this program, UPES students can go for internship or a project to partner university and UPES welcome students of the partner university for the same.
Covid-19 guidelines for international students as per Govt. of India notification.
Student Stories
At UPES, we believe that every student and staff should have an opportunity to gain international exposure. We intend to achieve this through international student mobility, hosting international faculty and thought leaders at the UPES campus, promoting online collaboration between students of various institutes and universities, promoting joint research between faculties, increasing institutional collaboration through MoU and participating in international academic events
Collaborative Projects
Read more
International Connect
UPES has partnered with the University of California (UC) Berkeley to expand students’ prospects of international exposure and study-abroad programs. This academic collaboration will enable UPES students to study for a semester.