1 Year of Experience in IQAC
February 2014
Minutes
-
Senior Administrative Officers
National Instituitional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
Sep 2019
To develop a system and quality culture for conscious, consistent and proactive action to improve the academic and non-academic performance of the institution.
Coordinators/ Director of the IQAC
5
Teachers to represent all Levels
Assurance Cell
2015
28
Assistant Manager – IQAC
Dr. Vijay Parthasarthy, Controller of Examination (officiating)
June 2017
Vice-Chancellor, Dayananda Sagar University, Bengaluru Former Vice-Chancellor, PES University, Bengaluru
Data Executive - IQAC
st
17th April 2023
Mr. Manav Makin
30
17
Pro-Vice Chancellor, RV University Bangalore Former Dean/ Director at insitutions like IIM Kashipur, FLAME & OP Jindal University
nd
June 2019
2
NBA
Awareness
National  Accreditations
National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC)
Mr. Ajit Bhandari, Associate Professor – School of Design
December 2015
February 2015
Preparation, Coordinating & conducting
Dr. Sanjeev Kumar, Professor, School of Computer Science
September 2020
November 2014
Accreditations
2017
S. Raghavan
To enable/ensure every stakeholder to take action considering “Quality & Excellence” factors.
September 2021
Dr. Devesh Kumar Avasthi, Dean - Research and Development (R&D)
To conduct periodic reviews/audits with academic/non-academic functions.
Vice-Chairman, IQAC Amrita University, Coimbatore Accreditation Expert- NAAC and NBA
Prof. Phani Tetali, Dean – School of Design
(IQAC)
Objectives
Vice Chairperson
21
Composition
Functions & Responsibilities
Data & Process Driven
December 2021
Close
Member on the Affiliation Board of GGS Indraprastha University, Delhi
February 2016
National Ranking
Mr. Rahul Nainwal, Director School of Business and CEO of UCIE
May 2015
Chief Executive
Dr. Ram Sharma, Vice-Chancellor
Ms. Pallavi Singh, Alumni Representative
20
Dr. Prashant Vishwanath
Staff Team
Dr. Prashant R. Nair
Consultative
Devanshu Dutta
Pro Vice Chancellor of the Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research NAAC, ABET, and NBA approved assessor for quality education
QS World University Ranking
Advisor (Quality Assurance) in Hydrocarbons Education & Research Society (HERS), Delhi
School of Health Sciences and Technology
Third Eyesight Managing Partner
13+ years of experience in Higher Education Industry, specifically in Accreditation and Ranking
22
Mr. Ravindra Singh Rawat, Assistant Professor – School of Liberal Studies
18
2nd November 2022
To act as the nodal agency for (pre & post) Accreditation & Ranking activities.
March 2020
January 2020
Dr. Atri Nautiyal, Associate Professor & Associate Dean- School for Liberal Studies
To promote practices for institutional functioning towards quality enhancement through internalization and collaboration that enhances parity of institutional learning and student experience.
Composition Details
April 2017
Dr. Sivakumar Alur
Prof. JP Gupta
To create awareness of excellence and quality.
Dr Manimuthu Gandhi
2023
Advisory Committee
Executive Director, Centre for International Legal Studies, Jindal Global Law School
Preparing annual review reports for all accreditation bodies.
One Nominee from Local Society, Students and Alumni
Mr. Manish Madaan, Registrar
Director (Research) & Coordinator, IQAC, JSS Academy of Higher Education & Research Professor, Department of Biochemistry, JSS Medical College, Mysuru
Oct 2018
Approach
International Ranking
Prof. Dwarika Prasad Uniyal
Prof. Shubhashis Gangopadhyay, Dean – School of Liberal Studies
Preeti Priyambada
1
Dr. Sanjeev Ratna Singh, Professor & Associate Dean – School of Modern Media
19
Load More
2019
3 Years of teaching and administrative experience
31
National Board Of Accreditation (NBA)
International Accreditation Council For Business Education (IACBE)
March 2018
IQAC
Mr. Tarnjot Singh Sidana, Student Representative
25th July 2002
IACBE
Dr. Sumeet Gupta, Professor – School of Business
Akansha Arora
Dr. Nalin Mehta, Dean - School of Modern Media
June 2018
Implementation of feedback
To act as a ‘Think Tank’ and ‘Quality conscious’ of the institution. To create & facilitate Structures & Processes for the academic/non-academic functions of the institution.
To provide and collect feedback from stakeholders and facilitate corrective action/improvement.
Alumnus of UPES and postgraduate in Management Studies, expertise in Sales and Marketing
Ph.D.in Commerce (Finance)
Internal Quality Assurance Cell
May 2014
Mr. S. Raghavan
2016
PVC Partner
2020
November 2017
Prof. K.N. Balasubramanya Murthy
Director - IQAC
Proactive
Prof. (Dr.) S. Shanthakumar
Ranking
Director, Gujarat National Law University & Gujarat Maritime University President of Gujarat International Maritime Arbitration Centre
Manager – IQAC
Divneet Kaur
Chairperson
Dr. Ravi S Iyer- Dean, School of Computer Science
May 2019
MEMBERS
August 2015
International Accreditations
NAAC
Course: LLM in International Business Law
Postgraduate in Management Studies.
2014
Company: PricewaterhouseCoopers CA LLP
Enable UPES to be a Quality driven institution with academic practices & systems that are robust, agile, adaptive and futuristic
14
27
2022
Home
12
Dr. Alok Aggarwal, Professor - School of Computer Science
29
Vice President, Indian Society of International Law Founding Dean of VIT School of Law
th
August 2014
To institutionalize the best practices which lead to the “UPES Way”
Professor in VIT School of Business
November 2016
Internal Quality
Dr. Nishant Mishra, Dean – Student Welfare
7
One Management Representative
June 2020
September 2017
May 2016
2021
Eligibility Criteria
August 2016
Prof. M. Sundhararajan
Accreditation Expert- AACSB
Dean of Respective Schools
Designation: Consultant
Postgraduate in Management Studies
Prof. S. Swaminathan
March 2019
Dr. Padmavathy Venkat Subramanian, Dean –
To ensure/support academic and non-academic functions to implement the documented processes.
September 2015
Prof. Abhishek Sinha- Assistant Professor & Associate Dean- School of Law
One Nominee from Employers/ Industrialists/ Stakeholders
Dr. Samir Ranjan, Dean - Academics
Dec 2018
15
Vision
Collaborate with stakeholders to build and maintain the institutional database.
Title
10
Dean, Planning & Development Director, Centre for Nanotechnology & Advanced Biomaterials SASTRA Deemed University, Tanjore
Collaborative
Dr. Syed Mohammad Tauseef, Professor and Associate Dean – Research and Development
3+ years of experience in Real Estate and IT Industry
Work with stakeholders to avail benefits.
Dr. Vinita Singh, Sr. Associate Professor – School of Law
2018
Dr. Pankaj Kumar, Professor and Associate Dean – Research and Development
13+ years of experience in Higher Education Industry, especially in Accreditation and Ranking.