The first story is from the Syadvada philosophy of Jainism, popularly known as "The Elephantand Blind Men". This story teaches us that truth has several facets. We must look at things from different perspectives before making judgments. We must be open-minded and willing to listen to others' opinions.
Finally, I leave you with the Chhandogya Upanishad's words, Tat Tvam Asi (Thou art That). You are a part of something greater than yourself, and it is up to you to realise your true and infinite potential and do whatever you choose to do in whichever field you decide.
Leadership
Eligibility Criteria
Dr. Ram Sharma
From The Vice-Chancellor’s Desk
Welcome to a new journey of learning, growth, and discovery. As you embark on this journey, remember that every human has infinite potential. You are capable of achieving greatness beyond your wildest imagination.
I would like to share a few stories that inspire you to do great things.
Home
However, this potential cannot be realised without hard work and effort. Remember that every action or inaction has consequences, and it is up to you to decide which path you want to take. With dedication and perseverance, you can attain the success you desire. One of the things that you will learn at the university will be to become independent and assume responsibility for your actions or inactions.
The second story is a conversation between Buddha and his disciple Ananda where Buddha tells him "Aatmadipo Bhav," i.e. to become his light, which tells us that we can be our light and illuminate the entire world. You can make a difference in the world by believing in yourself.
Also, remember that learning is a lifelong process, and it is never too late to start. You are never too old or too young to learn something new. So, embrace every opportunity that comes your way, and never stop exploring.
The third story is from one of my favourite books, Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse, where the protagonist, Siddhartha, meets Buddha and asks a few questions to display his intelligence despite knowing he is talking to an enlightened one. Buddha told him, "You are clever, my friend. Be guard against too much cleverness". This quote reminds us that intelligence alone is not enough. We must use our intelligence wisely, become our guard against the arrogance of knowing and not let it cloud our judgement. Let's always stay humble and hungry for learning.
So, welcome to this journey of learning, growth, and discovery. Embrace every opportunity to attain your infinite potential, never stop working hard and exploring, and always believe in yourself.
Close
Vice Chancellor, UPES
Vice-Chancellor - Dr. Ram Sharma