At UPES, students are guided and motivated to practically implement the principles learnt in classrooms through experimentation in laboratories, making them confident and skilled professionals. As we strive to be at the forefront of education, we collaborate with and maintain excellent relationships with industries and leading research centres for joint projects, training, and internships. This gives our students an edge, which is reflected fully in our high placement records year after year.
A university whose top priority is to help students fulfil their aspirations and dreams. We work with students to design customised educational plans that meet their goals. Among other things, we offer our students a personalised learning environment with great flexibility and continuous mentoring. Moreover, we integrate technical knowledge with strong ethics and leadership skills to churn out the best.
Leadership
From The President's Desk
At UPES, 'students' have always been our focus. We are a trustworthy destination for students aspiring for an innovative career. We believe in the power of education to transform lives and are committed to positively impacting the communities we serve. UPES is more than just a university – it has become a movement that transforms the lives of youngsters. While in the initial years, this transformation took place through Petroleum and Energy domain courses, over the years, we have added Infrastructure, Transportation, IT, Design, Planning and Policy, Management, and Law. In the true sense, UPES is the nation-builder's university.
Dr. Sunil Rai
Educators have always played an instrumental role in developing and advancing society and humankind. Our world faces several security, environment, energy, and health challenges despite their contribution. We believe that educators create a significant impact on overcoming these challenges and eventually improving the quality of life through their problem-solving abilities, research, and innovation. We are living in rapid change with expanding skills and expertise in several fields across the globe. The present day presents unique opportunities to produce leaders in various disciplineswho advance the knowledge of specific professions and are sensitive to protecting the environment and wealth of natural resources and maintaining equity. At UPES, we are committed to world-class moulding leaders who make a difference in society.
President - Dr. Sunil Rai
Here at UPES, we inspire dreams, ignite curiosity, motivate actions, and define the vision for tomorrow. I am happy that you are considering UPES for your studies, and I look forward to helping you take this exciting step in your life.
Home
Our programs provide students with excellent opportunities to work closely with faculty memberswho are handpicked from premier universities worldwide. This enhances the quality of education and the prospect of getting individual attention. We have a team of dedicated scholars as the faculty members and experts from the industry as advisorswho create an exciting and friendly environment conducive to learning. We follow an outcome-based education system.
President, UPES
Whether you are a student, parent, or curious individual, we invite you to visit our campus to witness the state-of-the-art facilities and excellent teaching-learning atmosphere we are offering. Our enthusiasm knows no bounds, and our dedication to advancing education is indeed strong.
Close
Eligibility Criteria
Our vision is to be recognised for high-quality academic programmes and research through industry-relevant programmes, the excellence of our motivated faculty, and the state-of-the-art facilities we provide to the students. Our academic programmes prepare students better to face new challenges through stronger ethics and entrepreneurship components. We are committed to giving our students an environmentwhere they develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills.