Internet Of Things (Iot)
Sustainable Development
Artificial Intelligence
As companies focus on minimizing adverse effect on environment, future Health and Safety engineers require an in-depth knowledge of environmental hazards, their control and environmental legislations. This minor program details several frameworks for multi-disciplinary students of M. Tech Health and Safety, which focuses on basic concept of sustainable development and its role in modern world for clean development technology.
Home
Disaster Management
Sustainability & Climate Change
Internet of Things employs a system of inter-connected mechanical and digital machines with an ability to transfer data over a network without requiring human-to-human or human-to-computer interaction. IoT requires a background in Physics such as Ohm’s law, electrical components (LEDs, transistors, relay, diode, capacitor, etc.), computer programming, etc. IoT can be used in monitoring and controlling various processes. For instance, it can be used in monitoring nuclear reactors, solar power plants and remote cleaning of solar panels, etc.​
Close
Minors for School of Engineering
Load More
Blockchain
In this specialization, students will acquire an understanding of the basic concepts of data analysis and learn to extract useful information from the data. Students will learn the application of classical and modern data-analytics techniques, statistical machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques in practical problems.
AI has been finding applications across a series of sectors, including mechanical, electrical, petroleum renewable energy and utilities. AI is among the fastest-growing tech sectors. It combines a wide variety of advanced technologies to give machines the ability to learn, adapt, make decisions and display behaviours not explicitly programmed into their original capabilities.
Eligibility Criteria
This specialisation will provide students training towards disaster management to enable them to manage all kinds of disasters by implementing proactive disaster management strategies in terms of relevant legislation, policies, directives and effectively co-ordinate relief and recovery programs. Students will understand the principles and practices of disaster management. Students will also get a hands-on knowledge of the underlying natural process or mechanisms that give rise to natural hazards such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, floods and more.
Data Analytics
The UPES School of Engineering offers the following minors, which can be taken up by students besides their core specializations
Data Science
Fire Safety Engineering
This specialisation is aligned with the global and national requirements of sustainability professionals. The program focuses on energy efficiency, cleaner electricity production from fossil fuels, renewable energy, low carbon technologies, classification of energy and mineral reserves and resources, energy security, the integration of energy restructuring, legal, regulatory and energy pricing reforms, as well as of the social dimension into energy policy making.
Use of block chain is becoming prevalent in managing supply chains, voting, storing property deeds, personal records, in fact anywhere there is a form of contract between two parties. According to LinkedIn 2018 Emerging Jobs Report, Blockchain is the topmost upcoming job and engineers with the basic blockchain knowledge will witness 33X growth.
The specialisation consists of six courses that will equip students with the foundational skills required for Data Science, including open-source tools and libraries, Python, Statistical Analysis, SQL, and relational databases. Students will learn these data science pre-requisites through hands-on practice using real data science tools and real-world data sets.
Fire safety specialists use the basic tools of engineering and science to help protect people, property and operations from fire and explosions. ​This course helps HSE students to focus on fire safety aspects. This will enable them to understand the principles of fire prevention and protection, apply techniques for safer design and monitoring of facilities, processes and systems. ​ Fire safety engineers can be called on to provide a broad range of services.
School of Engineering
Minors for