The users should select Digi locker as the preferred depository for registering into NAD. The user may click on the link
Home
, which shall re-direct them to the depository's website. Further details relating to the registration process are available on the website.
Maintaining academic awards in an electronic depository would provide benefit to educational institutions, students and employers by enabling online access to academic awards which will eliminate the need for persons to approach educational institutions for obtaining transcripts of such awards for verification. It would also eliminate fraudulent practices such as forging of awards, by facilitating online verification thereof and maintaining the authenticity, integrity and confidentiality of the award.
Students shall:
Approve/reject the request of any verifier for access to his / her certificate
How to Register on NAD?
Close
Anytime, anywhere and convenient access to academic awards
Roles & Responsibilities of Students
Immediate availability of academic awards upon upload by Academic Institution
Authentic Documents, Legally at Par with Originals
Submits Aadhar / DigiLocker ID to AI for verification and seeding into award data
Digi Locker is a provider of NAD services and aims at the ‘Digital Empowerment’ of citizens by providing access to authentic digital documents to citizens’ digital document wallets. The issued documents in the Digi Locker system are deemed to be at par with original physical documents as per Rule 9A of the Information Technology (Preservation and Retention of Information by Intermediaries Providing Digital Locker Facilities) Rules, 2016.
https://nad.digitallocker.gov.in
Online, permanent record of academic awards
Eligibility Criteria
Important Documents Anytime, Anywhere!
The users of the NAD system are free to select Digi locker as the sole depository for NAD.
Academic Bank of Credits (ABC)
View/download digitally signed awards
For more information and registration in ABC:
https://nad.gov.in/
National Academic Depository (NAD)
For more information about NAD:
Send a copy of the certificate to any verifier
Student can:
Views and accesses all awards online at any time in a single account
Faster service Delivery- Government Benefits, Employment, Financial Inclusion, Educational admission, Health.
Avails Digi Locker ID in case of non-availability of Aadhar
Digi Locker
Benefits for Students:
https://www.abc.gov.in/
Academic Bank of Credits has been established on the lines of the National Academic Depository (NAD), where the students' academic data are held and academic awards are stored (i.e. storehouse of academic awards). Even though ABC enables students to register or commence credit transfer, the outcomes of credit redemption and issuance of certificates, as well as the compilation of award records, are administered by academic institutions via the NAD Platform.
Register on NAD-Digi Locker by providing Aadhar details.
Request a printed copy of the certificate
Digital Document Exchange with the consent of the student.
No risk of losing, spoiling, or damaging the academic awards
National Academic Depository (NAD) is born out of an initiative to provide an online storehouse of all academic awards. National Academic Depository (NAD) is a 24X7 online storehouse of all academic awards viz. certificates, diplomas, degrees, mark sheets etc. duly digitized and lodged by academic institutions/boards/eligibility assessment bodies. NAD not only ensures easy access to and retrieval of an academic award but also validates and guarantees its authenticity and safe storage.