About UPES:
added
Home
“Today, India is a force to be reckoned with. We are known as much for technology as for ancient philosophy and life-changing education that values humanity and knowledge, equally. With pride and patriotic enthusiasm, our students and staff have come together to salute the incredible new India through this soulful performance. We’re thrilled to share this celebration of national pride, with our fellow Indians,”
Opening with a powerful address by Sharad Mehra, Chairman, Hydrocarbons Education Research Society (HERS), the video puts a spotlight on various art forms, from the graceful art of Bharatnatyam, and dynamic contemporary dance performances, to the powerful lyrics that perfectly stitch together this modern yet rooted rendition.
Close
When UPES approached me for this interesting collaboration, the intention, and the attempt of a homegrown piece of art inspired me to take this up. With a beautiful mix of old and new streams, we have been able to push boundaries and create something which is democratic and diverse in its nature and form
Dr. Ram K Sharma, Vice Chancellor, UPES.
News and Press Release
Complimenting this collective effort, the
"This soul-stirring musical composition has deeply moved our hearts and instilled a sense of national pride in all of us. This tribute stands as a powerful reminder that this is India's era, and nothing can stop us from becoming a global superpower. Let us, therefore, take this opportunity to pledge our commitment to preserving our values and continue to actively contribute towards building an Atmanirbhar Bharat."
UPES CSR reshaping lives of young students
UPES Pays Soulful Musical Tribute to India Leading the World
The video has been completely performed by the students and faculty of UPES. Even senior leaders such as the Chairman, the Vice Chancellor and the Deans can be seen joining them in the video. They were also joined by staff members including security guards, gardeners, office boys, housekeeping ladies and more.
Eligibility Criteria
”, shares
This collective representation reflects a truly refreshing approach to education embodying inclusivity, respect and passion, all of which are the core values of UPES.
UPES offers graduate and postgraduate programs through its eight schools: School of Advanced Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Design, School of Law, School of Business, School of Health Sciences & Technology, School of Modern Media, and School of Liberal Studies with about 13,000 students and 1500+ faculty and staff members.
As India ushers into a new era and emerges as a beacon of hope for the world, UPES Dehradun launched a soulful music video to celebrate the spirit of the nation. The video, which is an artistic and musical expression of ‘India Leads the World’, was launched in the presence of the Governor of Uttarakhand, H.E Lieutenant General Gurmit Singh.
Established through the UPES Act, 2003 of the State Legislature of Uttarakhand, UPES is one of the top-ranked, UGC-recognized, private universities. As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2023, the Ministry of Education, India, UPES has been ranked 52, with a rank of 54 in engineering and a rank of 39 in management. In addition to this, the university was recently ranked 243 in Asia and the 3rd best private university in India by the QS World Rankings 2023. UPES has also been accredited by NAAC with an accreditation grade ‘A’ and has received 5-Stars on Employability (placements), by globally acclaimed QS Rating, with 90%+ placements over the last few years.
, said,
Governor of Uttarakhand, H.E. Lieutenant General Gurmit Singh
The music in this video is composed by Nishant Ramteke, a young talented music maestro from Maharashtra. “
at Silvercord Films.
The music video pays a proud tribute to a new India which is leading the change that the world is witnessing. It celebrates India not just as the youngest country in the world, the largest democracy on this planet, the next economic, political and social superpower but above all, as the largest human-centred nation that has become a global inspiration. Created in association with Silvercord Films, the music video cherishes the work of great Indian musical maestros whose original rendition ‘Mile Sur Mera Tumhara’ struck a chord with every Indian.
Yashasvi Juyal, Film Director and Screenwriter
This ode to India illustrates the sentiment that there is no stopping the change and progress this nation is bringing. Whether it is the support in delivering vaccines to the world during the pandemic, to being a driver of peace during global conflicts, India is ahead and this marks the mere beginning of a glorious future.