About UPES:
Our CSR initiatives are designed to make a meaningful impact in the lives of individuals and neighbouring communities. We truly believe in the transformative power of education and are committed to creating a better world for all. Through our initiatives, we aim to uplift underprivileged students, provide a safe learning environment, and address pressing societal challenges.”
Talking about various initiatives undertaken by UPES,
Furthermore, to tackle the challenges faced by children of migrant construction workers, UPES launched
Home
Close
in 5 government schools in Kotra Santoor, Upper Kandoli, Doonga, Misraspatti and Phulsani. The workshop delved into building awareness around sexual assault and harassment and ensuring the safety of students. Additionally, UPES in collaboration with Aavishkaar NGO, launched the
. Through this initiative, the university has been extending support to these children by providing education, daycare facilities, and mid-day meals. Recently, UPES also started providing school uniforms to these young learners, further boosting their confidence and eagerness to learn. Reinforcing the transformative impact of Project Samvedna, the initiative ensures that these children receive proper care, resources, and a safe learning environment while their parents are at work.
at Rajkiye Prathamik Vidyalaya (RPV) Bakarna and Govt. Middle School Kharakhet to provide a safe and supportive learning environment for students. The university also focuses on leveraging technology and fostering innovation in education through programs like
News and Press Release
Under the overarching umbrella of ensuring a quality education for all, UPES also continues to uplift underprivileged students by providing them with the opportunity to pursue higher education through
Project Protsaahan -
UPES CSR reshaping lives of young students
a weeklong workshop on the 'Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act' (POCSO)
SmartClass
Learnshaala
The CSR arm of UPES recently completed an
Eligibility Criteria
Math Matters Program
UPES offers graduate and postgraduate programs through its eight schools: School of Advanced Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Design, School of Law, School of Business, School of Health Sciences & Technology, School of Modern Media, and School of Liberal Studies with about 13,000 students and 1500+ faculty and staff members.
Col. Sanjay Washington, Director of CSR, UPES,
infrastructure and mural work project
. SmartClass aims to enhance digital learning through the integration of multimedia content and interactive teaching aids, creating an immersive and highly effective educational experience. On the other hand, Learnshaala ("Envisioning Classrooms as Centers of Excellence") focuses on empowering students with the necessary skills, values, mindset and tools to experience holistic education.
said, “
to empower women by equipping them with strong mathematical skills and student-centric teaching practices. It was aimed towards addressing the commonly felt math phobia and empowering them to become better educators of tomorrow.
Project Samvedna
Established through the UPES Act, 2003 of the State Legislature of Uttarakhand, UPES is one of the top-ranked, UGC-recognized, private universities. As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2023, the Ministry of Education, India, UPES has been ranked 52, with a rank of 54 in engineering and a rank of 39 in management. In addition to this, the university has been ranked the No. 1 private university in academic reputation in India by the QS World University Rankings 2024 and is among the top 3% of universities in the world. UPES has also been accredited by NAAC with an accreditation grade ‘A’ and has received 5-Stars on Employability (placements), by globally acclaimed QS Rating, with 90%+ placements over the last few years.
To further its commitment towards safeguarding children and promoting a safe learning environment, the CSR team at UPES conducted
and
The foundation of a child's future is built upon high-quality early childhood nurturing and education. The untapped potential of students in rural areas needs to be awakened through equal access to knowledge. By granting them the key to learning from a tender age, we empower them to explore new horizons and shape their lives.
where meritorious students from the Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) are aided through focused mentorship and financial assistance. So far, the university has admitted 15 students under this project, out of which 7 are placed and 8 are undergoing their studies. Through their CSR arm, UPES continues to foster a brighter and more inclusive future for all, irrespective of their circumstances.