The two-day conference, organized in collaboration with Elsevier, University of Dayton, and Providence University, upheld the tradition of excellence established by previous editions, attracting over 3,800 contributors from 47 countries.
Abhishek Chamoli
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner, Vidushi Singh, continues to excel in her sport with remarkable skill and dedication.
Visit our campus to experience the immersive learning energy of life at UPES.
Read More - Campus Life
For three exhilarating weeks, UPES hosted The World Design Challenge
Satvik Srivastava
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a student at the School of Computer Science; with a specialization in Graphics and Gaming, accepted an offer of Rs. 50 LPA from Microsoft.
UPES alumni from the 2005-2006 batch, representing top organizations, revisited the campus after years, reminiscing about their journey.
Literature Fest
April 13 - 14 , 2024
Capturing the best moments from the Battle of Bands
It was all smiles and sunshine at UPES' 20th convocation ceremony
Companies seek all-round development and not just academic brilliance in candidates during placements. Industry insights in curriculum ensure that our students get an edge to secure the best offers.
Get ready to vibe with UPES at the coolest Women's Bike Rally ever!
Abhishek Chamoli, a B.Tech student from the UPES School of Computer Science, as he sets new standards with his remarkable achievements!
Convocation
Vidushi Singh
nd
View all
Virasat 2024
News & Events
September 29, 2024
Law Fest
We are your partners in your child's educational journey
Vidhi Utsav left us spellbound with its thought-provoking workshops , captivating performances, and a kaleidoscope of cultural delights.
Developed affordable and locally-made 3D printers
Fulfill your child’s ambitions with scholarships and other financial aid available.
Close
Events
Aprajita Katiyar secured her dream job at ONGC, one of India's leading oil and gas companies. She owes this success to her holistic development that was possible through a versatile curriculum
Secured multiple offers
Kirty Gupta
A musical tribute created by the students & staff of UPES
Bhumika Joshi
Siddhivinayak Dubey
India leads the world.
Scholarship
Aaj Ki Rani - Women's Bike Rally
Law Leadership Event
Over 300 UPES Bangalore Chapter alumni reunited for a memorable evening with top industry professionals and entrepreneurs.
22
November 28-29, 2024
From classroom learning to boardroom success, Bhumika Joshi’s journey highlights the impact of education and mentorship.
Meet Satvik Srivastava, the visionary founder of Nurture and winner of the Startup Uttarakhand Grand Challenge 2024 🏆, a UPES School of Computer Science student on a mission to transform gardening 🌱.
Manik Garg
Feb 26, 2023
March 27, 2023
From Dreams to Reality
Campus Life
ICMLDE 3.0
From Dental Surgery to the exciting world of Business Analytics, and finally landing her dream job at Bain & Company, Medha Mathur's career journey is truly inspiring.
Read More - Visit UPES
March 8, 2024
Freshers 2024 was all about creating memories and friendships that will last a lifetime!
January 24-26, 2025
Watch Now
Watch as we celebrate a vibrant night of Garba and colorful ethnic outfits during Dholida 2024!
October 15 - 29, 2024
Parent Resources
Convocation, a landmark celebration of academic achievements.
Success Stories
Read More - Scholarship
Homecoming - Alumni Meet
Testimonials
Krishna
Adapt or Perish -
June 29, 2024
Visit UPES
January 25, 2025
Parents
Awarded by the former Chief Justice of India, Dr. DY Chandrachud, Virendra Pratap Singh Rathod, a BA LL.B (Hons) student from UPES, proudly shares his remarkable achievement of winning the inaugural KC Dhulia Memorial Essay Competition! 🏆📚✨
Alumni Meet - Bangalore Chapter
Freshers 2024
Our campus life is full of exploration and discovery. There are a wide variety of activities that are designed to engage students and help them realise their potential.
Aprajita Katiyara
Home
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner
Alumni Testimonials
Dholida 2024
September 28, 2024
Medha Mathur
Awarded by the former Chief Justice of India, Dr. DY Chandrachud
April 05, 2023
Ukti -
From discovering his passion for robotics as a student at the School of Advanced Engineering to founding Picraft Technology Pivot Ltd., Krishna is focused on changing the tech world.
Eligibility Criteria
Virendra Pratap Singh Rathod
Placed at Bain & Company
The thought leadership event "Adapt or Perish" brought together industry leaders, academicians, and senior law alumni to explore the evolution of legal education in a tech-driven world.
Read More
Embrace boundless possibilities with our School of Advanced Engineering, where talents like Anvesha, Yashvardhan, Ayushri, Namrata, and Vaibhav shine.
UPES recently concluded its 22
Vidhi Utsav -
UKTI wasn’t just a literary fest but a reason to celebrate our culture, which is long forgotten in the hustle of the contemporary world.
April 5 - 7, 2024
Experience an educational environment that is nurturing and constantly evolving to support the students’ highest potential.
Global Game Jam
December 21-22, 2024
Siddhivinayak Dubey, an alumnus of the School of Computer Science; with a specialization in Cyber Security and Forensics, working with a CTC of ₹ 1.3 Cr. at Atlassian.
UPES is proud to be associated with Virasat 2024, India’s largest heritage festival in Dehradun, where legendary artists bring traditions to life through their creativity.
Placed at Bain & Co.
UPES successfully hosted the 2nd edition of Global Game Jam, showcasing enthusiastic participation and exceptional creativity in game development.
Founder of Nurture