Training and preparation
Show All
Explore exceptional placement opportunities.
Recruiters on Campus in 2023-24
Placement Process
School of Business - BBA
MBA, School of Business
Placed at Accenture
MBA - Aviation Management, School of Business
School of Law
No. of Students Placed*
School of Design
Top 10% Avg CTC
Capability Enhancement and Development Schemes
School of Health Science & Technology
Summer Internships
The university boasts of a robust and successful career services department. Its partnership with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
Placements in 2023-24*
+
First Indian University to be awarded 5-Stars on Employability (placements), by globally acclaimed QS Rating
Placement Stories
Close
Student Outcomes
Placements
Placements & Recruiters
Top 10% Average CTC
Placement Record*
Bhumika Joshi
Siddhivinayak Dubey
EDGE, a platform for limitless possibilities, is an acronym for Enhanced Development Growth and Enrichment program. EDGE supports students in their chosen field with a focus on key action areas, such as Entrepreneurship, Exam Pathways, and Employability. This exposes students to a wide array of activities that help them prepare for various competitive exams and excel professionally. Some added benefits of this program are focusing on enhanced reading, comprehending and analytical writing capability, developing critical reasoning analysis, and understanding analogies and their implementation. These skills help students transform into a specialised workforce with a more focused, holistic thought process and entrepreneurship skills. EDGE helps students stand out in a crowd.
Our commitment to your holistic growth & success.
UPES believes in imparting skills that are high in demand and extremely important for a successful career. These soft skills will set you apart from the rest.
Placements - School of Business
B.Tech. - Applied Petroleum Engineering, School of Advanced Engineering
School of Advanced Engineering
From classroom learning to boardroom success, Bhumika Joshi’s journey highlights the impact of education and mentorship.
School of Computer Science - B.Tech.
Highest CTC in 2023-24
Apoorva Jha
Select School
School of Health Sciences & Technology
Ongoing Placement Highlights
From Dental Surgery to the exciting world of Business Analytics, and finally landing her dream job at Bain & Company, Medha Mathur's career journey is truly inspiring.
UPES School of Business provides transformative education that prepares the next generation of leaders for the global digital economy. The curriculum focuses on new technologies that are rapidly transforming the nature of business and consumer experiences. We aim to equip our students with the skills needed to adapt to disruption and thrive in rapidly-changing workplaces.
Placed at Accenture Solutions at 33 LPA
Aryan Singh
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Placed at ONGC
School of Advanced Engineering - B.Tech.
Our Figures - BBA (2023-24)
MBA - Oil & Gas, School of Business
%
Placement Across Schools
Highest CTC
Aprajita Katiyar
School of Business - MBA
*Placement statistics refer to the number of students who opted for and are eligible for placements.
PPO at SLB (formerly Schlumberger) at 33 LPA
Home
Placed at Microsoft
Kirti Gupta
School of Computer Science
Recruiters
Medha Mathur
Our Figures - MBA (2023-24)
B.Tech. CSE , School of Computer Science
Overview
No. of Offers*
Eligibility Criteria
Through insightful workshops, seminars and training programs, EDGE prepares students to face professional challenges; it nurtures students with comprehensive training. Additionally, EDGE gives students aptitude and comprehensive training, access to T.I.M.E center on campus, pre-post training assessment, pre-internship training, life skills training, graduate career guidance, thinking skills, communication workshops, resume workshops, LinkedIn profile workshops, personal branding and pitching workshop, tech talks, mock interviews, employability boot camp, industry mentoring by alumni, counselling for competitive exams, E-cell for aspiring entrepreneurs and soft skills training.
Overall Students placed in 2023-24*
LPA
Placed at Bain & Company
Ongoing Placement Highlights 2024-25
School of Business
Summer Internships are mandatory for all graduates and post-graduate students. The minimum duration of summer internships is eight weeks and goes to a maximum of six months. Career Services Department and faculty members from respective domains play an important role in ensuring all students get an opportunity to experience corporate life and culture through these internships. Every year, our students undergo summer internships with renowned organisations. Internships help students comprehend and develop their career interests, work with prospective employers and potentially secure job offers. Sector leaders across Aviation, Law, Oil and Gas, Power, Infrastructure, Logistics & Supply Chain, Business Analytics, Design, and Transportation, etc., have shown interest in assessing the capabilities of our students through this internship-based engagement process. Strong Industry Connect Results in 2400 + Online Internships on Live Projects.
Placement process
Our Figures (2023-24)
Placed at Bain & Co.