The university boasts of a robust and successful career services department. Its partnership with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
Summer Internships are mandatory for all graduates and post-graduate students. The minimum duration of summer internships is eight weeks and goes to a maximum of six months.


Career Services Department and faculty members from respective domains play an important role in ensuring all students get an opportunity to experience corporate life and culture through these internships. Every year, our students undergo summer internships with renowned organisations. Internships help students comprehend and develop their career interests, work with prospective employers and potentially secure job offers. Sector leaders across Aviation, Law, Oil and Gas, Power, Infrastructure, Logistics & Supply Chain, Business Analytics, Design, and Transportation, etc., have shown interest in assessing the capabilities of our students through this internship-based engagement process.

Strong Industry Connect Results in 2400 + Online Internships on Live Projects.
Abhishek Chamoli
Training and preparation
Placements in 2023-24*
Show All
Placed at Accenture Solutions at 33 LPA
+
No. of Offers
First Indian University to be awarded 5-Stars on Employability (placements), by globally acclaimed QS Rating
Explore exceptional placement opportunities.
Home
Placement Stories
Recruiters on Campus in 2023-24
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Students Placed*
Aryan Singh
Placed at Microsoft
Kirti Gupta
Placement Process
School of Computer Science
School of Business - BBA
Student Outcomes
MBA, School of Business
Close
Recruiters
Placements
Our Figures - B.Tech. (2023-24)
B.Tech. CSE , School of Computer Science
Placements & Recruiters
Secured multiple offers
Placed at Accenture
Placed at ONGC
MBA - Aviation Management, School of Business
Top 10% Average CTC
School of Advanced Engineering - B.Tech.
Overview
Abhishek Chamoli, a B.Tech student from the UPES School of Computer Science, as he sets new standards with his remarkable achievements!
Siddhivinayak Dubey
School of Law
Overall Students placed in 2023-24*
Through insightful workshops, seminars and training programs, EDGE prepares students to face professional challenges; it nurtures students with comprehensive training. Additionally, EDGE gives students aptitude and comprehensive training, access to T.I.M.E center on campus, pre-post training assessment, pre-internship training, life skills training, graduate career guidance, thinking skills, communication workshops, resume workshops, LinkedIn profile workshops, personal branding and pitching workshop, tech talks, mock interviews, employability boot camp, industry mentoring by alumni, counselling for competitive exams, E-cell for aspiring entrepreneurs and soft skills training.
EDGE, a platform for limitless possibilities, is an acronym for Enhanced Development Growth and Enrichment program. EDGE supports students in their chosen field with a focus on key action areas, such as Entrepreneurship, Exam Pathways, and Employability. This exposes students to a wide array of activities that help them prepare for various competitive exams and excel professionally. Some added benefits of this program are focusing on enhanced reading, comprehending and analytical writing capability, developing critical reasoning analysis, and understanding analogies and their implementation. These skills help students transform into a specialised workforce with a more focused, holistic thought process and entrepreneurship skills. EDGE helps students stand out in a crowd.
MBA - Oil & Gas, School of Business
Eligibility Criteria
LPA
Our commitment to your holistic growth & success.
%
Ongoing Placement Highlights 2024-25
UPES believes in imparting skills that are high in demand and extremely important for a successful career. These soft skills will set you apart from the rest.
School Of Computer Science
B.Tech. - Applied Petroleum Engineering, School of Advanced Engineering
School of Advanced Engineering
School of Design
Placement Across Schools
Highest CTC
School of Business
Capability Enhancement and Development Schemes
School of Computer Science - B.Tech.
Highest CTC in 2023-24
Apoorva Jha
Aprajita Katiyar
School of Health Science & Technology
Select School
Placements - School of Computer Science
School of Business - MBA
*Placement statistics refer to the number of students who opted for and are eligible for placements.
UPES School of Computer Science takes a progressive approach to education, emphasising interdisciplinary teamwork, entrepreneurial thinking, and inventiveness. Through partnerships with leading technology companies, the school provides comprehensive education that prepares students to harness the power of intelligent systems technology and apply it to address real-world challenges.
Placement process
Summer Internships
School of Health Sciences & Technology
Ongoing Placement Highlights
PPO at SLB (formerly Schlumberger) at 33 LPA
Our Figures (2023-24)