Exclusive course access, and a 30% scholarship for UPES alumni.
Mudit Verma
Further Education
as recommended by industry experts.
Founder, Blusmart Mobility
Visit Our Alumni Website To Learn More
our alumni. We are setting up a special ninja team that will assist our alumni in their job transitions. There shall be numerous networking opportunities and guidance on personal branding that will help them make a mark as competent professionals.
160+ hours of live lectures
Real-life capstone project
transition into managerial roles within the tech industry
We have created avenues for our alumni to upskill by enrolling for various courses in
Placement mentorship
+91-9289371424
UPES M.Design Alumnus
This is a foundation-level program with no pre-requisites
To know more, call: Praveen Rai: +91-9599038760, Arpan Kakkar: +91-9599038750 | referrals.IBM@edology.global
Skills
To know more, call:
For more information please visit:
Exclusive course access, and a 20% scholarship for our UPES alumni base for the Tech Management Course with KPMG.
through Interactions during live sessions and in-person immersions
+91-9311551619
https://in.edology.com/post-graduate-program-in-data-science-ibm/
Developed by IBM domain experts
Delivered by IBM practicing data science experts
contact@runwayincubator.com
Our start-up incubator, Runway, runs 5 incubation boot camps, for the alums who are keen to make a mark as entrepreneurs. It also has a yearly incubation cohort for up to 40 alumni startups with assured funding for at least 5 start-ups.
Support in final placement for students completing certain courses on specific technologies
+91-9599038748
Certifications by NASSCOM
For the alumni interested in higher studies, we offer 50% scholarship for their Masters, preferential allotments for sponsored PhDs, and up to 35% special scholarships at our partner universities.
Networking opportunities with KPMG leaders
Close
Internship opportunities by CISCO, Salesforce, and Microsoft for committed and ambitious students
, -
https://in.edology.com/kpmg-technology-management-program/
Curated by IBM patent holders
Please contact Mr. Mohit Nagpal, Incubation Senior Manager, Runway, for more details at
lifetime placements/career opportunities to
Visit: -
Ankit Dubey
Courses aligned to the curriculum developed by the Industry & approved by Govt. – Provided by best-in-class training and technology providers. All the courses listed in the catalogue are available at no cost (for a limited time)
Alumni Connect
Comes with globally-valued IBM Digital Badge
Alumni Speak
Key Highlights
+91-8077660434
Incubation
No coding experience required
There are 4 distinct areas in which the alumni shall receive support
Collaboration for us would mean access to 155+ courses in IT, Manufacturing, Healthcare, Telecom, Banking, Agri-Business, Automotive and several other sectors.
Flexi
Program in Technology Management with KPMG (10 months)
We are the first university in the world to offer
UPES is more than just an institution where students spend a few years earning a degree. It’s a place where they form meaningful personal and professional connections that last throughout their lives and careers. Our students – even when they leave our establishment – continue to be a part of our community and they find a haven every time they return to the place that nurtured them and gave them wings to fly.
through counselling, personal growth mapping and placement workshops
To further fortify our alumni network, and insulate our alums from the upheavals, disruptions, and evolving business models in a post-Covid world, we have launched NEST – a resource base where alumni can return for advice and support as they progress in their careers.
experts in four bootcamps
weekend live classes with recorded lectures for self-paced learning
Micro-credentials: Take a quiz at end of each learning pathway to check your understanding and win badges every time you successfully complete a piece of learning & flaunt it in your social network
A premier trade body and chamber of commerce of the Tech industry in India and comprises over 3000 member companies including both Indian and multinational organizations that have a presence in India. It is a not-for-profit industry association, and is the apex body for the $227 billion dollar IT-BPM industry in India, an industry that had made a phenomenal contribution to India's GDP, exports, employment, infrastructure and global visibility.
To meet the needs of the industry, companies need highly skilled ‘Techno-Managers’ who work at the intersection of business and technology to help fuel business growth and become future-ready.
https://futureskillsprime.in/
What’s in it for learners?
Distinguished alumni group – Be part of an exclusive group of alumni to grow in the industry
Opportunity to participate in 3 hours Master class on technologies like AI, Cloud etc. conducted by Microsoft and AWS.
Alumni Connect - NEST - A Unique Alumni Initiative
,
Anmol Jaggi
alumni@upes.ac.in
Free & Short learning pathways of ~30 mins duration curated by industry experts for both techies and non-techies that ensure relevance to what learners really need to know when on the job.
Taught by KPMG
This is an exclusive program offered by IBM in India. The course is designed and delivered by IBM inventors and patent holders, practicing data scientists and AI/ML experts
at four locations in India – Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Dehradun.
The UPES Alumni Team proudly supports nearly 22,000 UPES alumni that live and work around the world. Our dedicated staff and alumni volunteers help manage more than 10 UPES Alumni Regional Chapters that meet periodically for various events. We also welcome alumni back to our campus to mentor existing students, and as special guests on advisory boards and other committees.
Certificate Programs by Edology
UPES B.Tech Alumnus
Government of India incentive scheme for learners for a refund of a certain amount for paid course completion and refund of assessment fees once candidates pass the government certification exam.
Deep Tech, the Metaverse, Digital Transformation, and Leadership
Program in Data Science by IBM
Home
Opportunity to participate in nationwide Hackathon on emerging techs and win fabulous prizes.
Product Design Lead, Flipkart & Cleartrip
We look forward to your involvement as NEST progresses. Please do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have questions, concerns, or ideas you would like to share. To know about NEST, write to us at
For more information, please refer to the link below:
Any graduate or a student pursuing a technical or non-technical degree
Eligibility Criteria
or mail at
Edology, in collaboration with KPMG, is offering an online PG program in Technology Management that is hybrid, industry-oriented and focused on career outcomes. Applicable for both tech and non-tech working professionals, our learners can
: Learn and grow with 1-1 guidance from KPMG mentors
+91-9599038754
Careers
Co-founder, Raymach Technologies