School Of Modern Media
The university boasts of a robust and successful career services department. Its partnership with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
Summer Internships are mandatory for all graduates and post-graduate students. The minimum duration of summer internships is eight weeks and goes to a maximum of six months.


Career Services Department and faculty members from respective domains play an important role in ensuring all students get an opportunity to experience corporate life and culture through these internships. Every year, our students undergo summer internships with renowned organisations. Internships help students comprehend and develop their career interests, work with prospective employers and potentially secure job offers. Sector leaders across Aviation, Law, Oil and Gas, Power, Infrastructure, Logistics & Supply Chain, Business Analytics, Design, and Transportation, etc., have shown interest in assessing the capabilities of our students through this internship-based engagement process.

Strong Industry Connect Results in 2400 + Online Internships on Live Projects.
Annual Placement Reports
Training and preparation
Show All
Placed at Accenture Solutions at 33 LPA
+
First Indian University to be awarded 5-Stars on Employability (placements), by globally acclaimed QS Rating
Load more charts
Home
Placement Stories
Lacs
Aryan Singh
As India’s only digital-first media school, SoMM instills foundational skills and knowledge that position graduates to stay ahead in a world where media is interactive, immediate, and always on. The school nurtures students to thrive in an ever-evolving media ecosystem characterised by a growing number of users and the amount of digital content being made and shared globally.
Placed at Microsoft
Kirti Gupta
Close
Placement Process
School of Computer Science
MBA, School of Business
Student Outcomes
Placements
The highest no. of students placed in Research and Consultation sector.
B.Tech. CSE , School of Computer Science
Placements & Recruiters
Placed at Accenture
Placed at ONGC
MBA - Aviation Management, School of Business
Top 10% Average CTC
Explore exceptional placement opportunities. Our commitment to your holistic growth & success.
Placements - School of Modern Media
Overview
Siddhivinayak Dubey
Recruiters on Campus in 2022-23*
School of Law
Through insightful workshops, seminars and training programs, EDGE prepares students to face professional challenges; it nurtures students with comprehensive training. Additionally, EDGE gives students aptitude and comprehensive training, access to T.I.M.E center on campus, pre-post training assessment, pre-internship training, life skills training, graduate career guidance, thinking skills, communication workshops, resume workshops, LinkedIn profile workshops, personal branding and pitching workshop, tech talks, mock interviews, employability boot camp, industry mentoring by alumni, counselling for competitive exams, E-cell for aspiring entrepreneurs and soft skills training.
EDGE, a platform for limitless possibilities, is an acronym for Enhanced Development Growth and Enrichment program. EDGE supports students in their chosen field with a focus on key action areas, such as Entrepreneurship, Exam Pathways, and Employability. This exposes students to a wide array of activities that help them prepare for various competitive exams and excel professionally. Some added benefits of this program are focusing on enhanced reading, comprehending and analytical writing capability, developing critical reasoning analysis, and understanding analogies and their implementation. These skills help students transform into a specialised workforce with a more focused, holistic thought process and entrepreneurship skills. EDGE helps students stand out in a crowd.
MBA - Oil & Gas, School of Business
Eligibility Criteria
LPA
%
The Placement percentage is more than 90% and the growth is constant.
Highest CTC has been increased from 28 LPA in 2021 to 50 LPA in 2022.
UPES believes in imparting skills that are high in demand and extremely important for a successful career. These soft skills will set you apart from the rest.
B.Tech. - Applied Petroleum Engineering, School of Advanced Engineering
School of Advanced Engineering
School of Design
Placement Across Schools
Highest Package in 2023
Most of the students recieved the dual offers.
Highest CTC
School of Business
Overall Students placed in 2022-23*
School of Modern Media
Our Figures
Capability Enhancement and Development Schemes
Apoorva Jha
Aprajita Katiyar
School of Health Science & Technology
Average Salary
Select School
Placement process
Summer Internships
School of Health Sciences & Technology
Ongoing Placement Highlights
Number Of Students Placed
PPO at SLB (formerly Schlumberger) at 33 LPA
Placements in 2022-23
Ongoing Placement Highlights 2022-23