Project EDUDHURMA
Naman, an initiative to provide succour to martyrs’ families. UPES is hosting the 11th Shaheed Memorial Tournament at UPES campus where different teams are coming together to play cricket.
Project Abhilasha
Women's Day Rally
Watch Now
Home
Aspire Circle Annual Retreat
Shakti
Close
The rally celebrated empowerment and solidarity, with riders sporting pink helmets as a symbol of strength and the unstoppable spirit of #AajKiRani.
UPES proudly hosted a vibrant Women’s Bike Rally around Dehradun on Women’s Day 2024.
Purpose Overview
To commemorate India's 77th Independence Day, the students and staff of UPES came together to present
th
edition of ARC 2024, an Aspire Circle event that focused on leadership in social and environmental impact. The social leaders gathered at UPES Aspire Circle Annual Retreat, fostering collaboration and impactful discussions.
Under this initiative, UPES has impacted the lives of over a hundred families.
Meritorious girl students with >60% marks in Class XII are awarded scholarship of 20% on Tuition Fee.
Scholarships
India Leads the World
Eligibility Criteria
Vijay
Social Impact
Meant for students from economically weaker sections of society.
Project Naman
50 scholarships between 35%-100% on Tuition Fee to be awarded to students excelling in sports.
UPES concluded the 5
Read More
Beyond The Borders
Jyoti
UPES hosted a 2-day workshop with over 25 representatives from 17 prestigious international universities, offering a dynamic learning retreat designed for practitioners of internationalization in higher education.
UPES is a gender diverse and inclusive university running various social initiatives like merit-based scholarships for girl students under project Shakti, sports (Vijay) scholarships, freeships (Jyoti) to underprivileged students and domicile scholarships for Uttarakhand residents. UPES also runs Project Naman, an initiative to create a difference in the lives of martyrs’ families.
a musical tribute to the nation.
Read more
Purpose
Engineering a better future.