students has improved drastically over the past few years, with a number of pharmaceutical companies offering attractive job opportunities. Some of the top recruiters for
Pharmaceutics
Computer Applications
Future Scope / Industry Trends
Semester 4
+91
Practice School
Biochemistry Lab
Pharmaceutical Microbiology
Some of the most sought-after career options chosen by students are listed below:
First Name
Hospital Pharmacist
Students enrolled in
Industrial Pharmacy II
Semester 1
Pharma Marketing Management
28
are provided with clinical and community exposure so that they become active change-makers and solution providers in the healthcare domain. On-the-job training through internships and clinical rotations in pharmacies and healthcare facilities are also imparted to B Pharm. students, thereby helping them become eligible for licensure exams to become registered pharmacists after successfully completing the programme. After completing a B.Pharm. programme, graduates can pursue careers as pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and pharmaceutical researchers, among others.
Credit
Medicinal Chemistry I Lab
I accept
Eligibility
30
Inorganic Chemistry
Course Type
Please Select Condition
are seamlessly able to foray into various job profiles that provide them with an opportunity to earn and work with renowned organizations globally and experience corporate life and culture through summer internships. These internships help B. Pharm. students comprehend and develop their career interests, work with prospective employers, and potentially secure job offers.
Medicinal Chemistry II
6
32
Human Anatomy
is only expected to grow in the future.
Please enter email address
Herbal Drug Technology
Contact Us
Frequently Asked Questions
Communication skills
2
are provided with world-class infrastructure and labs with a research-focused approach.
Environmental sciences
Semester 5
Social and Preventive Pharmacy
*
Chemistry II
8
UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology
Quality Assurance
Guidance and counselling for application to various international scholarship opportunities are also provided to the students of
for detailed Fee Structure.
Pharmaceutical
Quality Control and Standardization of Herbals
Call Me
course is based on a student’s performance in UPESPAT / JEE Mains / Board Merit / NEET / CUET.
Semester 3
School Tour
Instrumental Methods of Analysis
Chemistry I
Medicinal Chemistry III
Fee Structure
Physiology I Lab
Pharmaceutical Jurisprudence
Close
also known as
Human Anatomy and
24
How long does it take to complete a B.Pharm. course?
is a four-year professional program divided into eight semesters that deals with the study of medicines. The core subjects of the
B.PHARM. (BACHELOR OF PHARMACY)
graduates can look forward to a bright career in the fields of research and development, clinical trials, medical writing, drug safety, regulatory affairs, sales and marketing, and pharmaceutical manufacturing. In addition, they can also pursue higher studies in the field like M. Pharm. and Ph.D. in Pharmacy.
Placements
Choose Any Two
Please enter first name
terms & conditions
The minimum eligibility criteria for
Curriculum 2023-2027
Pharmacology III Lab
Mobile Number
Pharmacovigilance
4
graduates include Quality Control, Production, Quality Assurance, Regulatory Affairs, Research & Development, Marketing, Sales, Warehouse and Logistics. The salary packages offered to
Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry II
39
Semester 6
Pursuing a B.Pharm. at UPES can help take your career to different heights. UPES offers world-class infrastructure and state-of-the-art laboratories with a research-focused approach. UPES offers the best-of-the-best faculty team to provide top-notch education to students.
Select Course
undergraduate course in Pharmaceutical Sciences
Lab
Chemistry II Lab
Semester 2
Pharmaceutics I
students include Cipla, Sun Pharma, Ranbaxy, Lupin, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, GlaxoSmithKline, Aurobindo Pharma, Cadila Healthcare, Wockhardt and Torrent Pharma. Apart from the top recruiters, a number of mid-sized and small companies are looking for
Program Details
School of Health Sciences and Technology
offered by
Student and faculty exchange, and participation in research projects, seminars, conferences, and internship programmes are also encouraged.
22
Industrial Pharmacy I Lab
Cell and Molecular Biology
Pharmaceutical Sales Representative
Please Select Course Type
Physiology II Lab
Project Work
are co-developed and co-delivered by industry partners.
Biostatistics and Research Methodology
Student Exchange opportunities are also offered with Taipei Medical University (Taiwan), Providence University (Taiwan), and Airlangga University (Indonesia), which include student and faculty exchange, participation in research projects, seminars, conferences, and internship programmes.
Selection Criteria
graduates can also explore other fields, such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, and biomedical engineering. With the advancement of technology and the increasing demand for medicines and pharmaceuticals, the scope of
Microbiology Lab
Novel Drug Delivery System
to be fulfilled by interested students is as follows: Minimum 50% Marks at X & XII with Physics, Chemistry, Biology/ Maths, and English as a Major Subject in XII.
3
Computer Aided Drug Design
Pharmaceutical Regulatory Science
Academics
The scope of
is ever-increasing and will continue to expand in the future. With the increasing number of diseases, the need for medicines and pharmaceuticals is also increasing, which is leading to an increase in the demand for pharmacists.
Do you need to take an entrance exam to get into a B.Pharm. program?
Quality Control Analyst
How To Apply
1
Chemistry III
The total duration of the B.Pharm. course is 4 years, divided into 8 semesters.
The placement scenario for
B.Pharm. at UPES School of Health Sciences and Technology
Enquiry Form
B.Pharm. stands for Bachelor in Pharmacy, it is an undergraduate pharmaceutical program. It is an academic degree dedicated to studying the field of pharmacy. The program is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmaceutics, pharmacology, and pharmacognosy.
Analysis I
Please enter mobile number
School of Health Sciences
Remedial Mathematics
and Physiology I
and Technology has collaborated with Merck, AIIMS Rishikesh and many more such institutions.
Clinical Research Associate
26
Students who have completed their school education and are looking to build their career in the medical sector can opt for a B.Pharm. Apart from this, it is also important to have a good understanding of chemistry.
-- None --
Instrumental Methods of Analysis Lab
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
--None--
,
Pharmacology III
B. Pharm
Advanced Instrumentation Techniques
In addition to imparting classroom teaching, students of
Pharmaceutical Inorganic
Why choose B.Pharm. Course?
graduates. The jobs that are available for
Cosmetic Science
Academician
graduates depend upon the experience, skills and expertise of the candidates. The starting salary for freshers is usually in the range of INR 3-4 lakh per annum and can go up to INR 10-15 lakh per annum for experienced professionals.
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
Herbal Drug Technology Lab
To get enrolled in B.Pharm., candidates must have completed their 10th and 12th with a minimum of 50% marks, along with the science stream and English as major subjects in their XII exams. Moreover, passing entrance exams like JEE Mains, CUET, NEET, and UPESPAT with a minimum of 50% marks is also a crucial factor.
Regulatory Affairs Specialist
Semester 8
Who Should do B.Pharm. Course?
Career Opportunities
Physical Pharmaceutics II
is a promising field that offers a wide range of career opportunities and has a broad outlook and scope. Graduates holding a
Curriculum
Pharmacology II
Our students who graduate with an
Physical Pharmaceutics II Lab
Home
Pharmaceutical Engineering
Experimental Pharmacology
Curriculum 2024-2028
Medicinal
Dietary Supplements and Nutraceuticals
Analysis I Lab
Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry I Lab
in Pharmacy Lab
Email Address
Chemistry I Lab
TOTAL
B.Pharm.
Pathophysiology
Biochemistry
What is B.Pharmacy?
Pharmacology I
Pharmacy Practice
Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry II Lab
Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics
Overview
An
Admission Process
degree can pursue numerous career paths and profoundly contribute to the healthcare industry per se.
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
.
The process of selection criteria for those interested in pursuing
I Lab
in Pharmacy
What is the scope of B.Pharm.?
include pharmaceutical chemistry (chemistry of medicinal compounds), pharmaceutics (manufacturing of dosage forms such as tablets, capsules etc.), pharmacology (action of drugs on the body and action of the body on the drugs) and pharmacognosy (medicinal drugs obtained from plants and other natural sources). A Bachelor's in B Pharm. undergraduate degree program focuses on the study of pharmacy, which entails the science of preparing, dispensing, and reviewing drugs and medications for safe and effective use.
Community Pharmacist
Pharmacology I Lab
Further Information
Courses in
B.Pharm. course
Interestingly, the advancement of technology and the increasing use of artificial intelligence and big data in the pharmaceutical industry also lead to promising opportunities for pharmacy graduates to specialize in areas such as pharmacoinformatics, pharmacovigilance, and clinical research among others.
Click here
Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry I
Pharmacology II Lab
B.Pharm. degree has a vast scope and offers job opportunities in multiple fields, like pharmacist, medical writer, and regulatory affairs associate. Moreover, this degree paves the way for future endeavours and opens doors for overseas studies as well as professional opportunities.
Chemistry Lab
Physiology II
Pharmaceutical Organic
Remedial Biology
Industrial Pharmacy I
Course
Pharmaceutical Biotechnology
Medicinal chemistry III Lab
Physical Pharmaceutics
Physical
Last Name