Petrol Injector Cleaning and Testing Machine
What opportunities does the Mechanical Cluster provide for practical experience?
Magneto ignition System-model
Mechatronic assembly system
Learn More
Salt spray chamber
Digimatic Micrometer
Hydraulic and electro-hydraulic Apparatus
The Mechanical Cluster offers a wide range of specializations including aerodynamics, propulsion, structures, avionics, space science, materials, thermal-fluid sciences, automotive design, manufacturing, mechatronics, renewable energy, and more.
The NSC is an international event organised annually, where leading minds in space exploration and technology gather to exchange ideas, discuss breakthroughs, and pave the way for futuristic advancements.
Faculty
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues, and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
UTM Testing 1000 KN
Dr. Ashish Karn
centre of pressure
Coriolis component of acceleration
Cuts Section Model of Single Cylinder 2-Stroke Petrol Engine
Inductive Proximity Sensors, Capacitive Proximity Sensors, Magnetic Proximity Sensors
burn rate estimation setup
Universal Governor apparatus
Value Added Courses
3. Aerospace Structure Lab
MIL-STD 1553B cards
Specialisations
Reynold number apparatus
Hot wire cutter
Programs
Multiplexer and Demultiplexer kits; Encoder and Decoder kits
Forging furnace
Linear drive
Deflection of beam setup
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Sewage Block
chamber heating (Ambient to 400 elg.)
Pelton turbine
Emission control system with DOC and DPF
To generate competent, ethical professionals in transportation, aerospace, advanced manufacturing, and energy sectors.
Single Cylinder 4- Stroke Diesel Engine 5 HP Test Rig with Rope Brake Dynamometer
CNC lathe
Communication:
Hydraulic press/furnaces/mixers
School of Advanced Engineering
Contact angle goniometer
How does the department promote research?
Viscometer
Combustion laboratory setup
Position Control Loop
Impact Testing machine
The engineer and society:
Magnetic stirrer
Design/development of solutions:
Air Compressor
16. Workshop and manufacturing lab
Minors - AI&ML, IoT, Blockchain, Data science, Bio-mimetics, Sustainability engineering, Climate change, Disaster management, Reclaim engineering, Astronomy & Astrophysics, Space Engineering, Statistics & probability, Economics.
Spark plug Cleaner and Tester
Battery charger to charge up to 6 batteries at 72 V
Gyroscope
Hydrogen induced cracking
Oil Dispenser
MTX CNC Simulator
Cylindrical Grinder
Interdisciplinary collaboration and professional ethics
Electrical System of an Automobile (Demonstration Model)
Inclined multi-tube manometer
Pressure control valve (PCV)
Photo bioreactor
Pin-on-disk Tribometer
13. Automotive Electrical & Electronics Lab
Space Technology
Automotive
Radiator pressure tester
Cut sectioned Model of Solex Carburettor
Aerospace Engineering
Clutch alignment set
E-Mobility
Life-long learning:
Pressure measurement trainer kit
Gear pump test rig
Home
Engine De-Carbonizing Machine
Refrigeration Test Rig with Data Logger
Advanced Manufacturing
Propellent technology setups
Pneumatic Drill M/C
Cut section Model of starter motor
Automatic storage & Retrieval system
The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at UPES which started off with its flagship program in Automotive Design Engineering in 2005, has today, grown to offer a world-class blend of specialisations and expertise from a host of cutting-edge and concurrent technologies ranging from thermal-fluid sciences, aerospace, automotive design, manufacturing, materials, e-mobility mechatronics and robotics, etc. Setting it apart is the department’s approach to fostering an ecosystem of innovation, entrepreneurship, scientific research, interdisciplinarity and academic excellence.
Surface Grinder
Water To Air Heat Pump
Automated Guided vehicle
Read More
Environment and sustainability:
Vision
27. Metrology lab
Can you elaborate on the department's industry collaborations?
Bench Jigsaw
Metal cutter
Impact of jet Apparatus
Profile Projector
NI data acquisition system Integrated with LabVIEW Software
Cam Analysis apparatus
Notch apparatus
MIGWelding M/C
Radar test setup
Vickers hardness tester
Department of
Emission Optical Spectrometer
Epicyclic gear train apparatus
28. Design and Analysis Lab (Advance CAD Lab)
Research Laboratories and centres
Micro hardness tester
Biodiesel reactor of 2L and 100 L capacity
26. Fluid Mechanics Lab
Multi-ports electronic pressure sensor
Biogas plant of 6 cubic m (Anaerobic digester)
5-gas Analyser
Cut section model of gearbox
2. Aerospace Propulsion Lab
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Solar thermal concentrator, paralyser
Digital manometer
What can I expect from my engineering studies at the department?
Project management and finance:
Computerized Tensile Testing Machine (50 KN)
Vibrator testing apparatus
Close
Weiber Vacuum oven
Our strong industrial ties ensure practical exposure and collaboration with industry experts, enriching the learning experience with real-world insights.
The CFD lab is equipped with high-performance computers and industry standard software such as Ansys, COMSOL Multiphysics and CATIA.
Pipe Pressure Testing machine
Two-hinge arc apparatus
MSC NASTRAN
M.Tech.
Double disc variable speed polisher
R-29 Turbojet Engine
Potentiostat
Student Chapters (such as Infinity space club, ASME, ASHRAE, SAE etc.)
Program Outcome
25. CAM (Mechatronics) Lab
Satellite communication system
Undergraduate
Problem analysis:
3D Printers
Cut section Model of Thermostat
We regularly participate in prestigious national and international events like SAE Aero Design, CanSat, AIAA Build & Fly, BAJA, SUPRA, and GoKart, providing students with an exciting platform to showcase their skills and innovation.
ALPHIE Dimensional mixer
Academics
Strain measurement trainer kit
Multi Car Scanner
Digital Vernier Calliper
Space Debris Capturing setup for LEO (Low Earth Orbits)
Expect a mix of theoretical coursework, hands-on projects, lab work, and possibly internships. You'll likely work with complex mathematics, simulations, and cutting-edge technologies.
Students begin their industry collaborations even before they graduate. Industry experts and collaborators design and deliver their courses on the campus itself. By providing access to international and national student chapters, students get a chance to present their skills, globally too. And by providing an environment wherein they have ample opportunities to conduct innovations and secure patents, students enter into the real world with skills that are far sharper and superior to their peers.
Drag coefficient measurement
MEMS accelerometers and gyroscopes along with microcontroller boards (Teensy 4.0 Dev. boards).
TIG Welding M/C
Modern tool usage:
ADAMS.
Power Hacksaw M/C
Sheet cutting shear machine
Ultrasonic Cleaner HUC
Temperature Measurement and Calibration unit
Proportional control valve
23. Theory of Machine (TOM) Lab
Strain Tester
Single Cylinder 2-Stroke Air Cooled Petrol Engine Test Rig with Rope Brake Dynamometer
CNC Wire Cut EDM
19. Thermal Lab
Bottom pouring stir casting furnace
Hydraulic Landing gear and flap deflector setup
Kaplan turbine
Department Details
Hydraulic Jacks
Cut sectioned Model of battery
Ambassador Petrol Engine 4 cylinder for Demo Purpose
LVDT trainer kit
Battery ignition System-model
Have more questions? Feel free to reach out to our faculty or explore our website for further information
Cut section Model of Water pump
Auto electrical test bench
Dr. Ashish Mishra
Defence Technology
Low-speed wind tunnel (test section size: 600mm x 600mm x 2000mm, maximum wind speed: 60 m/s)
1. Aerodynamics Lab
Overview
Eligibility Criteria
What is Aerospace Engineering?
Double Wheeled Grinder
Engineering knowledge:
Lathe Machine
Double Stage Air Compressor Test Rig
Milling Machine
Turbine stator blade for demonstration
Pedestal Grinder
Electrolux Refrigerator test Rig
Friction losses apparatus
Darcy law apparatus
4. Aeromodelling Lab
The cluster actively encourages research through advanced labs, state-of-the-art equipment, and expert faculty, nurturing a culture of curiosity and exploration.
Test Lane
Dial test indicator
Spark Plug Cleaner and Tester
Apply Now
Arc Welding M/C
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modelling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
Open ponds
Apart from this, the cluster provides:
Axial flow fan
Mahindra & Mahindra 2350 D Diesel Engine 4 cylinders for Demo Purpose
10. Centre of Excellence for Training and Research in Automation Technology (BOSCH REXROTH)
Dial Test Indicator
CNC Vertical milling Centre
Mounting press hydraulic
Computerized Centrifugal pump test rig
21. Composite Lab
A660 Air Conditioning Unit
Pressure Measurement Calibration unit.
Electric Hand Grinder
Cut sectioned Model of ignition-coil
Mission
Mechanical Engineering
Gauges: Ring, Plug, Snap, Feeler, Height.
Students engage in hands-on learning through cutting-edge facilities such as the Centre for Space Technology, Centre for high-performance computing, Composite Materials research centre, state-of-the-art 3D printing facility, Alternate Energy Research Centre and the Centre of Excellence for Training and Research in Automation Technology (BOSCH REXROTH).
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
Engine (5 HP) with dynamometer
Speed measurement trainer kit
What kind of global opportunities does the department offer?
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Slip Gauge, Angle Gauge, Sine Bar
Performance testing of propellants
Hydraulic Tilting Flume
Postgraduate
8. Space Technology Lab
4 strokes internal combustion demonstration engine
Professor
H- frame type 100-ton capacity hydraulic press complete
Tubler vacuum furnace as per design
11. Material Science & Nano Technology Lab
Fire and flashpoint
Gas Welding set
Innovative pedagogy and learning environment
Multi-cylinder CI engine test bench with electrical dynamometer
Wheel balancing setup
Pin-joint test setup
Cut sectioned Model of SU Carburettor
18. Material Testing Lab
Hardness Testing machine
Orifice and mouthpiece apparatus
Furnace
Universal Tensile Machine
24. Refrigeration and air conditioning lab
Various toolkits and hand tools
Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Ethics:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Stir casting bottom pouring furnace
Flow visualization setup
CATIA V6
To develop state-of-the-art infrastructural and research facilities.
Load More
Various models for force and pressure measurements
Cut Section Model of Single Cylinder 4-Stroke Diesel Engine
Torsion Testing machine
Aerospace engineering is the branch of engineering that focuses on the design, development, testing, and production of aircraft, spacecraft, and related systems. It encompasses both aeronautical engineering (aircraft) and astronautical engineering (spacecraft).
Dr. Anil Kumar
Spring Testing machine
To be a key center for developing globally competent professionals in Aerospace, Mechanical and Allied Engineering who can contributing to nation building.
Heavy-duty Creeper
Cut section Model of Radiator
Stress Corrosion cracking setup
Pour and cloud point apparatus
22. Corrosion Lab
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Choice Based Credit System and Program Electives
Pneumatic Oil Extractor Machine
Pin on disk (up to 200N) TR-20LE, CHM-400
Six-component strain gauge balance
This approach ensures students have a strong foundation for professional engineering and scientific careers in the private/public industry, as well as R&D institutions across the world. The well-rounded programs in Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering at undergraduate and postgraduate levels allow students to opt for specialisations in Space Technology, Avionics and Defence Technology. The Department also offers M.Tech. program in Computational Mechanics and E-Mobility and Doctoral Program in Aerospace & Mechanical Engineering.
Mounting press manual
Understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
The exhibition showcases the culmination of major and minor projects, giving students a chance to display innovative creations and witness the impact of one’s hard work.
To promote ethical behavior and culture among faculty and students to pledge their commitment towards the environment and society.
Computerized Reciprocating pump test rig
Sr. Associate Professor
Automatic polishing machine
Minor head losses apparatus
Statie & Dynamic balancing
What specialisations are offered within the Mechanical Cluster?
12. Automotive Chassis lab
Ultrasonic cleaner
Temperature measurement trainer kit
What is the significance of the capstone project exhibition?
D space
Individual and teamwork:
Project Based Learning
Marcet Boiler
How does the department prepare students for industry events?
Maruti Petrol Engine cut Model motorized
MSC APEX
Air Nozzle Test Rig
Wheel Alignment setup
MLD & Servo Drive
Vibration test setup
Associate Professor
Microscope digital
View All
6. Aircraft Systems and Instruments Lab
Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
17. Advanced Manufacturing Lab
FAQs about Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Bevel protector
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyse complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using the first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Directional control valve (DCV)
Buckling of column apparatus
Assistant Professor (SG)
Placement Assistance
Four Cylinder 4-Stroke Petrol Engine Test Rig with Hydraulic Dynamometer & Exhaust Gas Calorimeter
Vibration measurement trainer kit
Universal simulator
The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering has state-of-the-art research laboratories equipped with modern equipment and professional software.
Cut sectioned Model of Ignition distributor
Computational Mechanics
Scissor on Scissor Lift
About the Department
Flow control valve (FCV)
Fatigue Testing
Motorised gyroscope apparatus
Downdraft gasifier
Ultrasonic Sensor and Encoder
Function of Injector with pump working condition motorized model
Combination set
9. Alternate Energy Research Centre (AERC)
5. Avionics Lab
TATA 1210 SE Diesel Engine Six Cylinder (Demo Purpose)
15. Engine Testing & Emission Measurement
Washer dye machine
State of the Art Laboratories
Static test-bed for miniature rocket Testing
14. Engine Troubleshooting Lab
Drill machine
High-rate Battery Discharge Tester (digital)
Electrically heated crucible furnace included transformer
7. CFD Lab
Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Density meter
Shaper Machine
Cut section model car for demonstration
Fly machine
The cluster ensures holistic development by offering courses in emerging technologies like Data Analytics, AI/ML, and Automation, ensuring students are future-ready for industry demands.
Mechatronics
Diffuser test rig setup
Avionics
CNG Turning machine
Torque measurement trainer kit
Electronic balance
Compressor stator blade for demonstration
How does the Mechanical Cluster enhance student learning?
Our interdisciplinary focus and international collaborations open doors to global opportunities in industries ranging from automotive and manufacturing to aerospace and energy.
Deepak Bharadwaj
Power Steering system motorized
Weiber chiller
20. Advanced Material Science Lab
Belt grinder
To foster linkage with all stakeholders for continuous improvement in learning outcomes.
Microscope inverted
Cascade wind tunnel
Belt & Disc sander
Cut section Model of gear lubricant pump
Altimeter & Speed indicator
Hotwire measurement system
Programmable logic controller
Venturimeter and Orificemeter apparatus
Pneumatic and electro Pneumatic Apparatus
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Lab Facilities
Participation in National and International Events
Recognize the need for and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
CAD Lab has computers installed with the following software:
MSC PATRAN
Tell me more about the UPES-National Space Convention (NSC)
Ajay Kumar
Titrator
B.Tech
Ultrasonic disruption