Sector Planning
Marketing Management
Apply Now
Future Scope / Industry Trends
program at the School of Business UPES offers a diverse array of career opportunities. Students get the chance to work with reputed organizations, gaining valuable experience in the corporate culture through internships, live projects, and placements. These opportunities enable students to explore their career interests, engage with potential employers, and secure promising job roles. The career paths for MBA Power Management graduates in the Energy Sector include roles such as Power and Green Energy Regulatory and Financial Consultant, Power and Green Energy Analyst/SME in IT and Consultancy, ESG Specialist, Power and Carbon Trading Expert, Energy Efficiency Consultant and Business Development, Fuel Procurement Analyst, Green Energy Project Manager, Sustainability Consultant, Business Analyst, Energy Storage and E-vehicle Expert, Electricity Generation/Distribution Design and Planning, Procurement Management, and Electricity Network Design and Planning.
Semester 4
L
Sources of Energy
Business Communication
in Power Sector
Operations Management
Semester 1
Quantitative Techniques
UPES facilitates student and faculty exchange, research projects, seminars, and internships with leading global partner management institutes, broadening students' perspectives.
Accounting for Managers
PSM
Credit
Power Pricing & Power
Eligibility
Business Research
17
Integrated Power Resources
Purchase Agreements
Student Speak
Regulatory Framework
Contact Us
Analytics & Modelling;
25
Power Management
The UPES School of Business boasts modern smart classrooms, a well-equipped Analytics Lab, a comprehensive library, and advanced analytical tools, fostering an ideal learning environment.
2
Business Ethics and
Energy Storage &
is promising and globally relevant. The program prepares students for mid and senior management roles in power consulting, financing, business development, analyst, and research in the power and green energy industries. With a significant shortage of power professionals, there is a high demand for skilled graduates who can effectively manage the power and green energy business. The hands-on learning approach, including internships and on-the-job training, equips students with practical experience and a competitive edge in the job market. The curriculum covers emerging trends in energy sectors, such as hydrogen, energy storage, battery storage, electric vehicles, carbon trading, and digitalization. Students gain proficiency in various software and technologies like Python, R-Studio, TEMOA, and PyPSA, enhancing their employability. India's ambitious targets of 500 GW of installed renewable energy and green hydrogen production by 2030 further drive the demand for specialized energy analysts in Power Management. As the world embraces green energy and digital innovations in the power sector, Power Management graduates can look forward to a bright and promising future.
MBA
CSR
Power
Specialisations
for detailed Fee Structure.
Methods
Strategic Management
Summer Internship
Entrepreneurship
(Chose one from Energy
23
Semester 3
School Tour
& Network Administration
Innovation and
Non-Examination Pathways:
Fee Structure
MBA Power Management
Energy Power Trading
Close
for Managers
Placements
Green Energy and Transition to Sustainability
Human Resource
4
Students having a minimum eligible MAT /CMAT 2025 score of 70 percentile will be exempted from the UPES Management Entrance Test and will only be called for Group Discussion and Interview, if qualified. Valid 50 percentile and above score of CAT 2024/ XAT 2025 A score of minimum 400 or above for GMAT, a score of 120 and above in NMAT 2024 / 25 scores will also be accepted.
P
have shown remarkable growth. Renowned companies such as Accenture Strategy and Consulting, Accenture Technology, Infosys, Wipro, CRISIL, Ernst and Young, PWC, Deloitte, ABPS Infra advisory, Mercados Energy, Adani Power, BCG, among others, present attractive job opportunities to these graduates. Moreover, numerous mid-sized start-ups are eager to recruit MBA in Power Management postgraduates. The entry-level salaries for freshers in this field typically range from INR 6 to 30 lakh per annum, depending on the individual's skills, knowledge, and exposure.
Financial Management
(Chose one from Global
Semester 2
Suggested videos
and Climate Change)
Power Sector Structure
Students are equipped with cutting-edge software and technologies, including advanced Excel, SPSS, Python, TEMOA, PyPsa, and Analytics tools, preparing them for data-driven decision-making.
Program Details
Interested students must fulfill the minimum eligibility criteria for
& Functioning
Distribution
program offers flexibility, enabling students to pursue careers in manufacturing, service, or consulting within the power management industry.
Business
Selection Criteria
T
3
Students undertake a major project to apply their knowledge and skills in real-world scenarios, enhancing their problem-solving abilities.
Managing Digital
Power Transmission &
The future scope of
Academics
program at UPES offers a comprehensive and dynamic curriculum that equips graduates with the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in leadership roles within the power and renewable energy sectors. The program combines a solid foundation in core business disciplines with specialized expertise in power and renewable energy areas. Moreover, it hones leadership, strategy, and decision-making abilities to empower aspiring professionals to drive positive changes in the industry. Students develop the acumen to analyze the global and Indian power scenario, optimize strategies, and create project-specific marketing and financial plans while efficiently utilizing organizational resources. With a strong emphasis on the renewable energy sector, the program ensures that students stay updated on the latest market trends and norms.
In recent years, the placement prospects for students pursuing an
MBA in Power Management
Management & Power
How To Apply
The program's specializations provide students with the flexibility to focus on specific aspects of the power and renewable energy industry. The first specialization, Power Business and Regulation, delves into efficient resource management, power systems, power regulations, financing power projects, energy conservation, and energy policy. Students gain expertise in using data to drive business decisions through courses on data mining, predictive analytics, machine learning, and data visualization. The second specialization, Green Energy and transition to Sustainability, centers around sustainable business practices and the role of businesses in addressing environmental challenges. Students learn about sustainability frameworks, corporate social responsibility, sustainable development, and the latest trends and practices in the green energy sector, including Solar, Wind, Hydrogen Energy, Energy Storage and Batteries, Electric Vehicles, and Green Highways. This specialization covers both the commercial, regulatory, and technical aspects of the green energy domain.
Through summer internships, live projects, and guest lectures, students gain valuable insights into the power management sector and build strong connections with industry experts.
1
Dissertation
as stated below: Minimum 50% marks in Class X, XII and Graduation. Graduation From a recognized University in any stream.
Solar Power Development
and Governance
The selection criteria for students who wish to pursue an
e-vehicle Management)
,
Power Sector Automation
Industrial Visit
Business Environment
Specialization Paper II
Program Highlights
& Management
Wind & Alternative
Power Business; Sustainability
Managerial Economics
Career Opportunities
Environmental, Social
Curriculum
The
27
Fuel & Water
Home
& Smart Grid
Last Date to Apply: February 25, 2025
is a rapidly growing field with immense potential for career growth. At UPES, Dehradun, this program stands out as a flagship management qualification that facilitates rapid career progression. The two-year course offers a rich learning experience, including summer internships, live projects with companies, industrial tours, and dissertation projects. Students also benefit from insights and expertise shared by industry experts from both India and abroad. The curriculum has been thoughtfully designed with inputs from experts and alumni currently employed in esteemed organizations such as Accenture, Cognizant, Ernst & Young, PWC, Tata Power, Adani Power, Crisil, Sterlite Energy, among others.
Power Business & Regulations
TOTAL
Organizational Behaviour
Admission Process
Overview
Resource Management
Eligibility Criteria
Management
Global context of
Project Management
Specialization Paper I
Further Information
at UPES depend on their individual performance in UPESMET / National Level Exams/ CUET followed by Personal Interview.
Varied Specialisations to pick from
School of Business
Click here
Link
Power Generation &
Course
0
Transformation