Future Scope / Industry Trends
Reading the Holocaust
Creative Writing
Semester 4
+91
Express ideas and thoughts incisively and critically.
The World of Historical Fiction
British Literature II: Eighteenth Century to the Victorian
First Name
Minors
Course Details
Semester 1
At the School of Liberal Studies and Media, we are devoted to a transdisciplinary approach to learning. Film screenings-cum-readings, research seminars by faculty, lecture series and master classes by globally renowned academicians, workshops and conferences are directed towards that very purpose.
BA (H)
Publishing
Content Creation
Evolution of Poetry
Eligibility
Course Type
English
Borders and Beyond
I accept
Please Select Condition
Media, Journalism, and Communications
Diaspora and the Refugee Crisis
Please enter email address
Contact Us
to know more.
Semester 5
Reading Popular Fiction
*
Internship
for detailed Fee Structure.
Literature of Diaspora and Cinema
Examine the intricacies of cultural, social, and historical milieu through literary and artistic expressions.
BA (Hons.)
Call Me
Semester 3
School Tour
Disability, and Suffering
Research
Fee Structure
Close
Shakespeare Around the World
terms & conditions
Placements
Please enter first name
Literature and the Visual Arts
Mobile Number
Graduates develop applied skills through fellowships, internships, and field visits.
Children's Literature
Students learn from globally renowned academicians, researchers, and thinkers.
Semester 6
Gender, Literature and Culture
Literature from the Margins
Credits
Select Course
Literature and the Environmental Discourse
Semester 2
Reading Bodies: Illness,
Heritage Management and Conservation
Digital and Social Media Marketing
Program Details
Develop a nuanced understanding of the world through the medium of letters (literature).
Transdisciplinary/
The BA(Honours) in English is an industry-focused degree. It will help students carve their own professional identities. Students will develop some of the much sought-after skills in the industry such as close reading, critical and creative thinking, writing, and socio-historical and cultural interpretations.
Research Project Centric Online Course (MOOC)
Internship/Fellowship
Please Select Course Type
Introduction to Linguistics
BA (Hons.) - English
Core Courses
Students experience a transdisciplinary approach to learning which involves film screenings, research seminars, guest talks, workshops, and learning through critical reflections.
Selection Criteria
Research Specific Seminar Course
Mystery, Madness, Monstrosity:
American Literature
Postcolonial Literature
(Any 1)
Academics
The Art of Translation
Science Fiction and Fantasy
Theorising Drama
Professionals from the team of Career Services help students plan for their careers.
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Library Services
How To Apply
Enquiry Form
Please enter mobile number
Academic Writing and Publication
Students learn to appreciate literature’s liaisons with other academic domains such as history, politics, and cultural studies.
Archival Work
Bollywood Studies
Deliberate on socio-political, and artistic contexts of literary production cross-temporally and cross-spatially.
-- None --
(Any 2)
Type of Courses
Copy Writing
--None--
Our programme will help students:
The programme follows the four-year (3+1) structure which allows a three-year undergraduate study combined with the opportunity to undertake an additional fourth year of research-driven study in English.
,
English Studies: An Introduction
Digital Literature
Literature and Queer Studies
Students have the opportunity to study at some of the most renowned global universities as part of our student exchange programmes.
Along with a range of core papers, students can choose from a pool of fascinating electives to graduate. The curriculum is aimed at creating a strong academic foundation in conjunction with experiential training through community connect, internships and fellowships. Students are trained in transferable skills—analytical, critical thinking, creative and incisive writing, research—preparing them towards their career goals.
Employers are looking to hire individuals who are well-rounded and who exhibit a capacity to communicate clearly, to think creatively and critically, and to empathetically address workplace concerns. The BA (Honours) in English programme has been developed keeping in mind the changing needs of the industry. It will train students to deconstruct and evaluate problems by undertaking thorough research and help build their aptitude for creative reasoning.
Classical Literature
Research Paper
Personal Interview/ CUET
Human and the Humanities
Administrative Services
Some of our transdisciplinary research areas include Gender Studies, Digital Humanities, Death Studies, Race and Postcolonial Theory, and Popular Culture Studies.
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
South Asian Literature: Boundaries,
Experiential learning both within and outside the classroom.
Education
Semester 8
Career Opportunities
Elective Courses
Curriculum
Interdisciplinary Courses
Reflect critically on questions of marginality, intersectionality, and exclusion, therein, taking up issues of class, caste, creed, gender etc.
For the holistic development of students, we also encourage students to participate in various curricular and extracurricular opportunities on and off campus.
Home
The study of English can open a host of career paths for students. Our BA (Honours) in English curriculum is designed to equip graduates for a broad range of careers in various creative and executive industries. An enhanced ability to critically think, analyse, and communicate complemented by the understanding of socio-cultural drifts would allow students to carve a successful career in any of the following fields:
Crime Fiction
Basics of Cultural Studies
Dissertation / Research Project
Minimum 50% in 10th & 12th Any Stream
The fundamental strength of our programme is the ability to read and understand texts as a medium to study the human condition. The programme, therefore, seeks to direct the course of literary learning towards addressing socio-political, historical, cultural, and environmental concerns to foster a more inclusive, just, and sustainable future.
Email Address
Shakespeare around the World
Reading Gothic Narratives
Graphic Narratives
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Admission Process
Literary Theory
Apply now
South Asian Literature - Boundaries,
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
Graduates develop transferable skills—written and verbal communication skills, analytical skills, and strong research skills—that are immensely sought after in the industry.
Literary and Cultural Critic
Social Internship
British Literature III: Modernism and Beyond
Further Information
British Literature I: Old English to Restoration
Our transdisciplinary approach to teaching and learning encourages students to integrate knowledge from across academic domains prompting them to work towards solving multifaceted global problems. Core disciplinary knowledge is integrated with theoretical approaches from a variety of disciplines to allow for a more nuanced understanding of texts.
Click here
Advertising Industry
Course
Research Tutorials
BA (Honours) English is an exciting opportunity to study the vast expanse of literature and literary developments from the Old English period to the present. The programme is designed to engage with poetry, prose, drama, manga, and various alternative forms of text. The curriculum engages with questions of literary production, textual tradition, and critical theory.
Research Methodologies & Ethics
Last Name
Our faculty members trained at some of the best national and international universities such as Aligarh Muslim University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, EFL University, Cardiff University, University of Notre Dame, Macquarie University, and University of California, Berkeley are dedicated to working closely with students, encouraging them to think critically and creatively about real-world challenges.