Living Conversation
Operating Systems
A
Systems and Robotics
The process of selection criteria for students interested in pursuing
Semester 4
Statistics and Data
+91
L
is increasing rapidly, and it is expected to produce some of the most revolutionary inventions of this century, including self-driven vehicles, robot assistance, and digital disease diagnostics. As a result, the demand for qualified engineers in the field of AI has more than doubled in recent years, offering endless opportunities for professionals who want to lead research and development in AI. Pursuing a
Graduates of the
First Name
PE-2 Lab
5
MC Simulation
is promising as enterprises that adopt AI engineering practices are expected to outperform their peers by at least 25% in terms of operationalizing AI models by 2026. AI is becoming an essential technology in various fields, including self-driven vehicles, digital disease diagnostics, and robot assistance. The demand for qualified
Critical Thinking and Writing
Course Details
Semester 1
AI engineer
Data Structures and algorithms Lab
artificial intelligence and machine learning
Python programming Lab
Object Oriented Programming
Credit
Program details
Eligibility
Course Type
Data communication and Networks Lab
I accept
PE-1 Lab
program includes four projects and one internship with strong problem definition, scrutinized by senior faculties.
Please Select Condition
(AIML) from the beginning of their semesters, with a strong emphasis on probability and applied statistics. This allows students to think about AIML applications in both practical and theoretical ways, enabling them to optimize models and solutions.
Artificial Intelligence and
Computational Linguistics and
The program prepares students with a strong foundation in AI and ML, as well as practical experience in applying these concepts to real-world problems.
Contact Us
Please enter email address
25
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Robotics Scientist
Scope / Industry Trends
2
Applied Machine Learning Lab
Semester 5
program at UPES offers a comprehensive education that prepares students for successful careers in the field of
to be fulfilled by interested students is as follows: Minimum 50% marks in Class X and XII with 50% in PCM in Class XII.
*
Programming in C Lab
PE-1
8
Systems and Robotics Lab
for detailed Fee Structure.
PE-3
Summer Internship
Call Me
Problem Solving
23
artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies
Business Intelligence Developer
Semester 3
School Tour
Physics for Computer Engineers
requires proficiency in programming languages like Python, R, or C++. The demand for AI engineers is rising, resulting in lucrative pay scales. To test and improve their skills, individuals can undertake personal projects. Despite the initial daunting requirements, the field of artificial intelligence has many areas to explore, and attaining the necessary skills and specializations may take time. The key to a successful career in artificial intelligence is a passion for learning and taking risks. Prospective individuals should not be discouraged by the initial challenges and instead focus on developing an interest in the field.
B. Tech in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
21
UPES also provides a platform for students to start their own businesses, and many students have successfully launched startups with good recognition. An excellent example is the first batch AIML student Mr. Nikunj Bansal, who worked with a faculty mentor on a prestigious international project and is a co-author of the work published in Scientific Reports, Nature Publishing Group. Overall, the
Fee Structure
Data Structures and algorithms
Pattern and Visual Recognition Lab
Close
24
terms & conditions
Placements
Formal Languages and
Database Management Systems
Please enter first name
Linux Lab
PE-4 Lab
The minimum eligibility criteria for
Mobile Number
4
Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Discrete Mathematical Structures
Semester 6
program emphasizes on the applications of AIML, followed by statistics, discrete mathematics, and probability to understand the core of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Climate Change - I
Analysis
Select Course
P
Lab
Linear Algebra
Program Elective 24 Credits
Semester 2
Deep Learning
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Natural Language Processing
Mathematics – I
22
18
Please Select Course Type
Exploratory-2
The program focuses on mathematical derivation of ML models and their implementation for real-time applications and labelled data.
PE-3 Lab
Deep Learning Lab
Selection Criteria
Research Methodology in CS
T
Software Engineering
3
Automata Theory
Exploratory-5
The future scope of
Academics
The adoption of new
Programming in C
Digital Electronics
How To Apply
Design and Analysis of Algorithms Lab
The curriculum includes four projects, two of which are minor and two are major. In the major projects, students work on real-world problems and provide optimized solutions under the guidance of experienced mentors. Additionally, students are required to complete a three-month industry internship, where they work on real-world problems and have the opportunity to secure pre-placement offers. The faculty also involve bachelor's students in research work, providing opportunities to work on international and national projects of importance. Students are also encouraged to file patents independently or with the support of faculty members.
Object Oriented Analysis and Design
1
Enquiry Form
Exploratory-1
Start your Startup
Pattern and Visual Recognition
Please enter mobile number
Probability, Entropy, and
Big data engineering
Natural Language Processing Lab
-- None --
--None--
,
Environmental Sustainability and
PE-5
B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering- Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Climate Change - II
Compiler Design
Exploratory-3
PE-4
B.Tech. CSE
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
Minor Project
Data Scientist
Semester 8
Applied Machine Learning
Computer Science And Engineering
Python programming
Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning
Research Scientist
Specialized subjects taught include Introduction to
Career Opportunities
Data communication and Networks
Curriculum
The
Machine Learning
Home
Algorithm for Intelligent
School of Computer Science
program at UPES is a unique offering in collaboration with IBM, designed by a team of academic experts and industry professionals. Students are exposed to real-life applications of
PE-5 Lab
Last Date to Apply: February 25, 2025
Email Address
TOTAL
Admission Process
Learning Lab
Apply now
Exploratory-4
engineers has more than doubled in recent years, creating endless opportunities for those interested in research and development in AI. According to Gartner's study, there could be up to 2.3 million prospects for AI professionals by 2020, and the number of job vacancies in AI has doubled in the last three years. Machine learning developers, software technologists, and data scientists are the most in-demand roles in AI, according to a related study by Indeed.
Advanced Engineering
Leadership and Teamwork
Semester 7
AI Data Analyst
, Neural Networks, Algorithm for Intelligent Systems and Robotics, Cognitive Analytics, Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing, Pattern Recognition and Anomaly Detection, and Application of machine learning in industries.
.
Please select Course
Eligibility Criteria
Capstone Project - Phase-1
Further Information
Cryptography and Network
Design Thinking
Computer organization and Architecture
can lead to a highly rewarding career with a promising average CTC of Rs. 10.25 lakhs per annum and the potential for a highest CTC of Rs. 40 lakhs per annum. Companies like Accenture, Cognizant, Infosys, Samsung R&D, Jio Platforms Limited, Barclays India, 3 Pillar Global, PwC, Schneider Electric, and others have recruited graduates from this program. Therefore, AI & ML engineering can open up a vast number of career opportunities for the future.
Machine Learning Engineer
Click here
PE-2
Object Oriented Programming Lab
IT Ethical Practices
Advanced Engineering Mathematics – II
Database Management Systems Lab
offered by UPES is based on the individual's performance in UPESEAT / JEE Mains / Board Merit / SAT / CUET.
program can pursue several popular career paths, including:
Learning
The students participate in research work with various faculties to learn about novel and actual usage of these concepts.
Course
Security
artificial intelligence
0
B.Tech
Last Name
Capstone Project - Phase-2