UPES proudly hosts Maurizio Corbi, the mind behind iconic Ferraris, at L’Arte Dell’Auto
Student exchange opportunities at BESIGN-The Sustainable Design School (France) and Le Ecole de Design Atlantique(France), IED Italy, etc
Stories of Excellence
Academics
Student Achievements
+
14
Home
Students Placed*
Close
NaN
Take A School Tour
Minimum 3 characters require
UPES School of Design fosters a vibrant ecosystem where students and faculty explore the intersection of artistic expression, cultural heritage, and cutting-edge technology. It emphasises the role of design in documenting and safeguarding cultural heritage for future generations, using technology as a medium for preservation and storytelling. By fostering creativity rooted in cultural authenticity, the school empowers students to create meaningful solutions that not only innovate, but also honour and preserve cultural legacies, bridging the past, present, and future.
th
Co-teaching by International Faculty from the University of Europe for Applied Sciences (Germany)
Placements
*' All programs listed here are subject to approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
Confluence of Creativity, Culture and Technology
Programs & Specialisations offered
Faculty
View All
At the UPES School of Design, creativity and technology go hand-in-hand. We have state-of-the-art infrastructure to support technology-enabled learning: An AR/VR lab, film and media lab, MAC lab, 3D-printing, and laser-cutting facilities, to name a few. Our curriculum focuses on speculative skills or future casting, as well as knowledge and skill-building on the technologies of the future.
Alumni Achievements
100
Top 10% Average CTC
Last Date to Apply : February 25, 2025
Opportunities
Placement Highlights 2024
Eligibility Criteria
Rank in India in the University category, NIRF 2024
For M.Des. Admissions -
SCHOOL OF
Faculty Achievements
LPA
The school integrates emerging technologies like AR/VR and AI into design education, empowering students to redefine possibilities in fields ranging from architecture to product innovation. It nurtures designers who create impact-driven solutions that enrich communities, preserve cultural legacies, and contribute to the country’s socio-economic development. Through real-world projects and collaborations, students design for the greater good, bridging the gap between tradition and modernity.
%
11
As a hub of creative exploration and innovation, the School of Design equips future designers to shape a world where creativity, culture and technology meld to inspire progress and inclusivity.
Assistance for International Internships/Projects
Semester abroad opportunity at The University of California, Berkeley
Campus Buzz
School of Design
Number of Offers*
Highest CTC
Design
Placement Offers in 2024*
International Credit Transfer and Master’s Progression to Nottingham Trent University (UK)
Advisory Board
Unmatched  Global
10
View all
Confluence of creativity, culture and technology
The university boasts of a robust and efficient career services department. Its partnership
with industries ensures that the students have adequate exposure and quickly get absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. UPES focuses on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are equipped to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
LPA Highest CTC in 2024
46
Top Recruiters
Semester abroad with a tuition fee waiver at UE Germany
L’Arte Dell’Auto
The school also champions transdisciplinary initiatives for holistic problem-solving. Collaborating across disciplines, students and faculty create innovative solutions that blend insights from science, technology, business, and the arts.
Know More
Programs