Introduction to Digital networks: Social transformation and disruption
What are the career opportunities after doing a BA in Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) and BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)Program?
Creative Writing
Industry alliance with Hubhopper, offering a unique podcasting course
Semester 4
+91
Advanced Studio Production
The UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media equips students with cutting-edge media literacy for the fast-paced media industry. Media studies 3 years BA course offers insights into content and digital marketing for those interested in mainstream media. Personal and public relations enthusiasts can take a course.
Search Engine Optimisation and Platform Analytics
Bachelor of Arts
First Name
Development Communication
Documentary and Creative Non-Fiction
Critical Thinking and Writing
Mojo: Producing Video and Audio Content
Click Here
Filmmaker and TV Producer:
I accept
Course Type
Please Select Condition
Capstone Project 2/ Start Up/Research Project/ On Job Training
Global Politics
6
Please enter email address
Academic Planning & Monitoring
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII, any Stream.
Start your Start Up (SFL)
The initial two semesters of the program are standardised across all specialisations, whereas from the third semester onwards, the curriculum diverges based on the chosen field of specialisation. Visit the individual pages to learn more.
2
Exploratory Elective II
How to Build a Brand on Digital
Semester 5
Exploratory Elective IV
Internship
UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media BA graduates in Journalism and Mass Communication and Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting) benefit from numerous media employment opportunities. Students acquire the skills, information, and hands-on experience they need to succeed in journalism, radio, advertising, or public relations. Internships, initiatives, and industry collaborations offer networking and real-world experience, giving graduates an edge in the employment market. The program prepares graduates for success in the dynamic media sector and associated fields.
BA - Course Overview
*
Graduates can excel as digital media specialists, social media managers, and content creators for websites, social media, and mobile apps.
Exploratory Elective III
Media and Gender Politics
*3
70 mm Film Club – Weekly screening of movies ranging from timeless classics to contemporary masterpieces, we celebrate the art of storytelling through film
Fundamental of Social Media
Specialisations
Writing for Social Media: Introduction
Digital, radio, and television broadcasting comprise the core topics of the
Reporting and Media Research Methodology
Digital Media Specialist:
Renowned media professionals as faculty
Call Me
Does UPES provide scholarships for BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) and BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)Program?
Semester 1 BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting) 2023-27
Real-world/Project based assignments
Semester 3
The BA-JMC
Blogging and Web Publishing
Professional Software Training (PST) and Certification
Visit the individual pages to learn more.
Slow Learners Support
Metaverse and Social Media
21
* For further details, refer to T&C
Media Educator:
Digital Innovation Scholarship (funded by Meta) - Full scholarships to select students to pursue digital- media programs.
Close
Encouraging Advanced Learner
The School of Liberal Studies and Media encourages students to achieve excellence. UPES teach media literacy through engaging projects, professional experiences, and relevant training. Students can improve their skills and get professional experience at our numerous workshops, seminars, fairs, and internships. Join the UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media for an exciting media career. Our comprehensive, hands-on program prepare students for the new digital media sector. Browse your degree programs below.
The average pay after completing the BA Programme in Journalism & Mass Communication and Digital & Mass Media (Broadcasting) at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media depends on work type, location, and organisation. Mid-level journalism and digital media jobs can pay INR 50,000–80,000 per month, whereas entry-level jobs pay INR 20,000–30,000. However, high-level broadcasting and advertising jobs might pay INR 1,00,000 per month or more. Experience and certifications might increase salaries. These values are averages and might vary greatly depending on qualifications, work function, and other factors.
We at the School of Liberal Studies and Media believe in experiential teaching and learning and strive to imbibe creative skills in students. The following practices are in place to improve the quality of Teaching-Learning and student experience:
terms & conditions
Public policy and digital media
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
course encompasses print, digital, and broadcast media. Students report, edit, and produce news. Critical media analysis is also covered.
Film and Video Photography
4
Participation in Conferences/Seminars/Workshops (National/International).
Graduates can work as reporters, editors, and writers in newspapers, magazines, TV, and online news portals.
Semester 6
Exploratory Elective VI*
At UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media, the BA programme in Journalism & Mass Communication and Digital & Mass Media (Broadcasting) incorporates news reporting, broadcasting, and digital media production. Students learn about journalism, broadcasting, advertising, public relations, and digital media vocations. Internships, projects, and industrial collaborations emphasise theory and practice in the curriculum. Professional guest lectures, workshops, and seminars give students networking possibilities.
20
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII any Stream.
Total Credits
Credits
Select Course
What is the eligibility criteria for the BA Program?
Graduates can work as researchers, data analysts, and market researchers in media organisations, agencies, and research firms.
Media Researcher:
Semester 2
Why study BA at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media?
Assistance for International Internships/Projects
Journalist:
NPTEL lectures
Semester abroad opportunity at The University of California, Berkeley
Fundamental of social media
Graduates can pursue careers as educators, trainers, and consultants in academic institutions, media organisations, and training centres.
22
Please Select Course Type
Certification Courses
Media and Cultural Studies
FAQs
ICT-enabled Classroom (sound system, mic and projector)
Lifetime placement assistance and Multidisciplinary and Holistic Learning
Industry Experts on the Advisory Board
Student exchange opportunities at the World's Top Universities
What is the average salary after the BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) and BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting) Program?
Selection Criteria
Working With Data
3
The UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media
The Law and the Journalist
Reporting the other India
Academics
Semester abroad with UE Germany tuition waiver
Graduates can pursue roles as copywriters, media planners, and PR specialists in agencies, firms, and corporate communication departments.
Participation in competitive events (In-house/National/International).
Storytelling and Data Visualisation
Motion Graphics
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Exploratory Elective I
Advertising and Public Relations:
programs at the School of Liberal Studies and Media have these benefits:
The BA program at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media prepares students for diverse careers in the media industry, including:
Enquiry Form
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Exploratory Elective V
Research Methodology
-- None --
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
Digital News Production
Sound Design and Mixing
Semester 1 BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) 2023-27
Exploratory Elective l
--None--
Continuous Assessment.
Subject Code
(BA Journalism and Mass Communication - Digital) and BA-DDM (BA Digital and Mass Media - Broadcasting)
Design and Review of individual Course Plans at the beginning of session
Multi-cam TV production and floor management
What is BA Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) and BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting) Program?
Program Fee Structure
BA in Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)
Personal Interview/ CUET
Podcasting Essentials
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Environmental Science
Please enter last name
Minor Project
Semester 8
Why Media Matters: Introduction to Media and Entertainment Industry
Career Opportunities
Environment and Media
Graduates can work as filmmakers, screenwriters, directors, producers, and editors in the film and TV industries.
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Story & Script writing
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Our industry-aligned curriculum, state-of-the-art studios, and connections with renowned media specialists offer students an extensive curriculum they can pursue. Additionally, students can choose subject-specific specialisations alongside their main subject.
Home
Co-teaching by University Canada West International Faculty
The Bachelor of Arts (BA) program in Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital) and Bachelor of Arts (BA) Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting) at the UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media includes journalism, film studies, advertising, and public relations, among other media-related subjects. This program prepares students for careers in the journalism, advertising, public relations, film and television production industries, among others. Through internships, real-world projects, and partnerships with industry professionals, the curriculum emphasises practical experience. Seminars, workshops, and guest lectures offer students invaluable networking opportunities. There are courses in digital media, visual communication, media law and ethics, media management, and media research. In addition, students can choose electives in photography, radio, and event management based on their interests and career goals. Through study abroad programs and global internships, students cultivate a global perspective and sensitivity to other cultures.
Indian Economy: Key Principles and Introduction
Subject
Anchoring and Standup Reporting
Email Address
Unmatched global Opportunities – Collaboration with the Goldsmiths College of the University of London
CSR(Media)
The initial two semesters of the program are standardised across all specialisations, whereas from the third semester onwards, the curriculum diverges based on the chosen field of specialisation.
Living Conversations
Writing and Reporting for Digital media
We are introducing ‘The Open Lounge Podcast and YouTube Channel’ - Step into a virtual world of knowledge, inspiration, and captivating conversations.
Scope and Highlights
Collecting feedback and reviews from our former students provides valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Advanced Digital Filmmaking
Writing and Reporting for Digital Media
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Guest lectures from industry experts
Leadership and Teamwork
A UPES Bachelor of Arts degree is an ideal start to college and a fulfilling arts career. UPES University was the first Indian university to obtain the 2020 QS Five Stars Global Rating for employability due to its top-notch faculty and facilities. UPES BA entrance is simple. Applicants must submit an online application with photographs. Shortlisted applicants are interviewed. Candidates can choose their personal interview locations from the collective list. Successful candidates in the interview round are notified and offered admission to the BA program at UPES.
Indian Polity: Democracy and the State
Please select Course
.
Video Storytelling for the Web
For Hostel Fee Information,
Video Editing
Advanced Sound for Broadcasting
Design Thinking
Political Communication
Innovative Teaching and Learning
Click here
Scriptwriting for Video and Audio
State-of-the-art labs and studios
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Global Cinema: Critical Perspective
Student Testimonials
Course Completion Report (CCR)
degree. Students learn to develop content for various media outlets and the industry's business and legal aspects. Modern studios and production facilities are also employed for practical instruction.
BA in Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital)
Last Name
Audio and podcast production and post-production