Apply Now
Interview Result Declaration
+91
Aug 8, 2024
Must have a Master's degree or a professional degree declared equivalent to the Master’s degree by the corresponding statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) or an equivalent degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is approved, recognized or authorised by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or assuring quality and standards of educational institutions.
Last date to Pay Fee
First Name
Online Interview Booking/Scheduling
Conducting research.
Course Details
Academia:
PhD Regulations
I accept
June 21, 2024
Course Type
Our students have received attractive packages worth up to INR 50 lakh annually through industry placements. Moreover, we offer all our students five years of placement assistance and guidance.
Please Select Condition
Aug 4, 2024
Please enter email address
Graduates can work as researchers or research scientists in various research and development (R&D) organisations, such as government labs, technology companies, or start-ups. They can apply their Computer Science and Engineering expertise to develop innovative technologies, products, or services.
research@ddn.upes.ac.in.
*
The program's research component involves:
Additionally, candidates should have a clear career goal in mind, as a PhD in CSE is a rigorous and demanding program that requires a significant investment of time and effort.
Structure of Synopsis
PhD Computer Science Engineering
Specialisations
Note: Hostel refund will be as per UGC norms.
Interviews
Call Me
Thesis
Many graduates with a PhD in CSE pursue academic careers as lecturers, or researchers in universities, colleges, or research institutions. They can teach and conduct research in various areas of Computer Science and Engineering and mentor future generations of students and researchers.
Disclaimer
Close
Email:
S.no.
terms & conditions
Placements
Please enter first name
The fee indicated below is for the academic session 2022-23 only and is on a triple-sharing basis.
What are the eligibility criteria for a PhD in CSE course?
Excellent Resources:
Mobile Number
Last Date to Apply
Personal Growth:
Entrepreneurship:
There are academic fellowships for deserving students, domicile scholarships for bonafide Uttarakhand students, freeships under Project 'Jyoti' for students from Economically Weaker Sections, and sports scholarships under Project 'Vijaya'. Check the link for more information:
Admission Details
Identifying a research topic.
Must have a Master's degree or a professional degree in Computer Science/allied sciences declared equivalent to the Master’s degree by the corresponding statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) or an equivalent degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is approved, recognized or authorised by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or to assure quality and standards of educational institutions.
phd@upes.ac.in
Aug 9, 2024
Computer Science and Engineering
PhD in CSE (Computer Science and Engineering) is the highest academic degree awarded in Computer Science and Engineering.
Select Course
Please contact R&D UPES.
https://www.upes.ac.in/admissions/scholarships
School Of Computer Science
Note: Students who wish to avail the campus hostel facility should submit the following documents along with the requisite hostel fee without fail:
PhD
Please Select Course Type
FAQs
July 18, 19 & 22 July, 2024
Graduates can start their own companies and pursue entrepreneurial ventures in technology. They can use their knowledge and skills in Computer Science and Engineering to develop innovative products or services or to solve complex problems in various domains.
July 30, 2024
Medical Certificate*
What is a PhD in CSE?
Aug 12, 2024
Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme
Plagiarism Certificate
Declaration for Residency Program
Networking Opportunities:
Academics
Submission of Research Proposal on
Key Timelines
The eligibility marks of 55% (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever the grading system is followed) and the relaxation of 5% to the categories mentioned above are permissible based only on the qualifying marks without including the grace mark procedures.
Click here to download the PhD Admission Details
What is the average salary after the PhD in CSE course?
High-Quality Research:
Enquiry Form
In addition to the hostel fee, an interest-free refundable hostel security fee of Rs. 10,000/- will be taken at the time of registration.
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Yes, the hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on a first-come, first-served basis), separately for boys and girls on a triple-sharing basis. Students wishing to avail of the hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit a fee in advance.
UPES has excellent research facilities, including state-of-the-art labs, libraries, and computing resources. These resources provide students access to the latest technologies and tools, which can be critical for conducting research in Computer Science.
July 3th, 2024
RET Result Declaration
-- None --
03
Orientation Date
Police Verification Report* (from their respective city/town)
Does UPES provide fellowship for full time PhD students?
--None--
PhD CSE - Course Overview
RET Exam
Research and development:
Fee Details
UPES has world-class faculty and researchers who are leaders in their fields. Studying for a PhD at UPES allows students to work with and learn from these experts and contribute to cutting-edge research in the field.
How to Write Research Proposal
Pursuing a PhD at UPES is a challenging and rewarding experience that can help students grow personally and professionally. It requires a high level of dedication, perseverance, and intellectual curiosity and can help students develop critical thinking, problem-solving, and effective communication skills.
Engineering
The PhD in CSE program at UPES is ideal for those pursuing technical careers in the computer science industry. The program's curriculum is tailored to equip students with advanced research skills and knowledge in Computing theory, Quantum Computing, Cybersecurity, the Internet of Things, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Data Science. It offers exciting career opportunities in academia, research, and industry for students to develop skills essential for conducting cutting-edge research in Computer Science and Engineering research.
The School of Computer Science Engineering offers Ph.D. in-
Pre-Admission
Registration Date
Term Paper
Students must work closely with a faculty advisor who provides guidance and support throughout the research process.
Presenting the results in a dissertation.
June 26, 2024
Scope and Highlights of PhD CSE
Please enter last name
A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/differently-abled and other categories of candidates as per extant UGC Regulations from time to time; or for those who had obtained their Master's degree before 19th September 1991.
July 2024 Intake
Career Opportunities
A PhD in CSE curriculum includes a combination of advanced coursework and research activities. The coursework covers Research Methodology, Computer Architecture, Programming Languages, Algorithms, Data Structures, Mathematical Modelling, Computer Networks, Software Engineering, and Artificial Intelligence.
At the time of Admission
PhD in CSE program at UPES is perfect for those with a clear career goal in mind, as it is a rigorous and demanding program that requires significant time and effort. The career opportunities for graduates with a PhD in CSE are diverse and varied and depend on their interests, skills, and aspirations. Some of these opportunities include:
Why study for a PhD at UPES School of Computer Science?
In top companies, the average salary for a PhD holder in India can be up to INR 45 lakh per annum or more. However, this varies on a year-on-year basis depending on several factors.
Fee: Rs. 1,65,000/- Regular hostel for boys and girls at Bidholi and Kandoli campus.
- approx. 1000 words
Career Opportunities:
Home
Thesis Submission Form
PhD in CSE (Computer Science and Engineering) is best suited for candidates who want to pursue a career in academia or research and are willing to commit to the necessary training and development required for these careers. Candidates must possess a strong aptitude for problem-solving, critical thinking, and creativity. They should be able to work independently and have excellent communication and collaboration skills, as the program involves close collaboration with faculty advisors and other researchers.
Important Dates
Email Address
Commencement of Session
Industry:
UPES’ annual placement drive gives students a chance to interact with recruiters from leading start-ups and MNCs from around the world. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
Collecting feedback and reviews from our former students provides valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
There are abundant job opportunities after pursuing a PhD. You can work with universities, colleges, corporations, or in the research sector.
Graduates can work in various industries that require expertise in Computer Science and Engineering, such as software development, data analytics, cybersecurity, or robotics. They can work as software engineers, data scientists, cybersecurity analysts, or robotics engineers, among other roles.
Eligibility Criteria
June 10, 2024
A relaxation of 5% in marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-abled and other categories of candidates as per extant UGC Regulations from time to time; or for those who had obtained their Master's degree before 19th September 1991.
Progress Report Form
Please select Course
01
A PhD from UPES is highly valued in the job market. Graduates are in high demand by leading tech companies, research labs, and universities worldwide.
Final Thesis
*Format is available in the registration letter sent separately only to students who have secured admission.
Term Paper Requirements
Title
Developing a research plan.
Program Guidelines
Computer Science
02
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Student Testimonials
June 3, 2024
UPES allows students to network with other researchers and academics in the field. This can lead to collaborations, job opportunities, and exposure to new ideas and perspectives.
What are the career opportunities after doing a PhD in CSE?
Download
Last Name
Synopsis/ Abstract Presentation