#
Stories of Excellence
Collaboration and student exchange opportunities with HSE University, St. Petersburg
Academics
Global Classroom
The school offers a forward-thinking educational experience that blends global perspectives with local relevance. Positioned at the intersection of critical thinking, and social impact, the school is committed to preparing students to excel in an interconnected, rapidly-evolving world.
+
Semester abroad opportunity with Berkeley Global
Student Achievements
Home
Up to 40% Scholarship for selected students
Vanshika's Journey
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Liberal Studies and Media
Close
Unique pedagogy and programs attract exchange students from France, fostering cultural diversity and global awareness
1
Faculty from renowned global institutions such as MIT, Oxford, Yale, Stanford, Cambridge and more
Minimum 3 characters require
Take A School Tour
th
*' All programs listed here are subject to approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
Faculty
View All
Prof. Atri Nautiyal shares profound insights on leadership, resilience, & personal growth.
The school focuses on experiential pedagogy by engaging with local communities, industries and organisations. Students work on projects that address societal needs while gaining practical experience in their fields. This approach creates a unique educational experience that combines theory with action, preparing students for impactful careers in an ever-changing world.
Opportunities
Merit Scholarships | Early Acceptance Scholarships*
Last Date to Apply: February 28, 2025
Rank in India in the University category, NIRF 2024
Student exchange opportunity at the University of Bologna, Italy; University of Gothenburg, Sweden; University of Warsaw, Poland; and HEIP: School of International and Political Studies (France)
Beyond Classroom
UPES x RUSSIA TODAY
SCHOOL OF
Faculty Achievements
Eligibility Criteria
40
Go beyond traditional lecture halls and engage in cross-cultural learning experiences
Preparing thought leaders for tomorrow
Register Now
Campus Buzz
Programs offered
Vanshika Rawat shares her enriching academic journey at School of Liberal Studies & Media
Private University in Academic Reputation in India, QS World University Rankings, 2024
Dean's Message
Global
Master investment banking, financial analysis & risk management with B.Sc. (Hons.)
Advisory Board
Collaboration with the Institute of Indian Studies, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies
Chalchitra
The School of Liberal Studies and Media, through its multidisciplinary, empirical, and learner-driven approach, trains students to be the problem solvers and the thought leaders of tomorrow. Beyond the confines of conventional learning, the school envisages a live connection to the real world. This aspect is organically built into our innovative curriculum, generating a problem-solving mindset and training students to collectively ideate for their society’s future.
10
B.Sc. (Hons.) in Economics and Finance
View all
Students are encouraged to explore and synthesise knowledge across a range of disciplines. This interdisciplinary approach ensures graduates are equipped to think critically, solve complex problems, and adapt to diverse career paths.
April 11 - 13, 2025
46
Building global partnerships that promote cross-border learning for students and faculty
Students are exposed to international perspectives through partnerships, cross-cultural collaborations, and a diverse faculty. By integrating global insights with localised knowledge, the school ensures students are not only well-versed in global issues, but also equipped to engage with local contexts and challenges.
UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media equips students to analyse complex global issues through diverse perspectives, develop the ability to shape public discourse, influence policy, and create impactful narratives, ensuring they are ready to lead in tomorrow’s dynamic landscape.
Programs