Introduction to Climate and Sustainability
Foundational Course (FC): Data in
Future Scope / Industry Trends
Power, Control and Trade
Semester 4
Research Methods II
+91
First Name
Minors
Understanding Politics through
Public Goods and Beyond
India’s strategic culture
Course Details
Semester 1
The Economical Truth: Politics
Understanding Politics
Digital Politics
I accept
Eligibility
Course Type
Politics in India
All this under the meticulous guidance of our globally trained faculty, some of whom hold PhDs from the world’s top ten universities (QS ranking).
Please Select Condition
Political Parties, Elections and Voters
Citizenship and Human Rights
Please enter email address
Contact Us
Transparency, Accountability
to know more.
Semester 5
Introduction to Climate
Fellowship
and Development
*
(Quantitative)
for detailed Fee Structure.
Students receive individual guidance from the globally renowned faculty to prepare them to make applications for the top 250 universities globally.
Global Politics and India’s Foreign Policy
While maintaining the disciplinary focus, the cornerstone of this undergraduate degree is Transdisciplinarity. The courses are located at the unique intersectionality of various disciplines and issues. Learning from multi-disciplinary perspectives gives students a vast horizon, enabling them to make broad connections.    For example, one of the biggest contemporary challenges of climate change can be approached from scientific, economic, historical and sociological viewpoints.
BA (Hons.)
Call Me
Semester 3
School Tour
The program trains students to sharpen their research arguments and helps prepare them for group discussions and interviews in academia and industry, enhancing their overall employability.
Public Policy and Governance:
Introduction to Comparative Politics
Fee Structure
International Organizations
and Sustainability
Close
of India
Politics, Technology and
Placements
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Western Political Thought:
Mobile Number
The program allows students to explore exchange semesters with legacy varsities in Europe, Asia, and North America. Additionally, the program prepares students to be problem solvers-quality that is much sought after in industry-specific roles.
The Tragedy of Commons:
Indian Political Thought
Semester 6
Western Political Thought: Medieval
Credits
Select Course
Social Sciences and Humanities
Governance, Development and
and Corruption
and Society
Foundational Course (FC): Gender
Semester 2
A BA in Political Science offers diverse career opportunities in various sectors. Students gain practical experience and problem-solving skills that make them suitable for roles in the private sector, industry, policy-based government, and non-governmental think tanks. Students can pursue MA/PhD positions in internationally renowned institutions with faculty guidance and hands-on training. In India, Political Science holds significant importance for public and administrative services, making this program at SoLS an excellent choice for those aiming for a civil services career. This undergraduate program provides in-depth knowledge focused on South Asia, catering to the needs of aspiring civil servants.
Research Dissertation
challenges and pitfalls
Program Details
Transdisciplinary/
Complimenting the classroom teachings are our Masterclasses, where academics and practitioners are invited to engage with the students on a range of contemporary issues.  This harmonious synergy of academics and practitioners provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the contemporary challenges, encouraging students to think beyond the disciplinary boundaries. These aspects are included organically in our unique curriculums designed by globally renowned faculty.
United Nation’s SDGs and India
Case Experiments
Please Select Course Type
Foundational Course (FC): Ideas
Surveillance (EB)
Public Administration and Management
Core Courses
Selection Criteria
Regulation and Governance:
Classical Political Philosophy
Academics
Public policies, Governance,
Discourses on Justice
BA in Political Science is an empirically driven program emphasizing field-based learning. We train students to conduct original enquiry and enable them to make broad causal connections over time.
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Locating solutions amidst
How To Apply
Introduction to Political Economy
Enquiry Form
Games Nations Play: IR through Case Studies
Please enter mobile number
Research Methods I (Qualitative)
Our experiential pedagogy through connecting with the neighborhood takes students outside the classroom to face and tackle vexing political-economic-social and policy problems. Guided by our faculty, students are expected to work on live locations to think creatively about social justice, identify problems, provide creative solutions, and connect to real-world issues in this rapidly changing world. Besides, we have a structured fellowship and internship track should students want to delve deeper into specific issues preparing them for the pragmatic application of concepts learnt in the class to the real world.
-- None --
Type of Courses
--None--
,
and Modern Political Philosophy
Formation of the Modern State
Introduction to International Relations
to contemporary times
Personal Interview/ CUET
The Tragedy of Commons: Public
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
Energy Politics
Career Opportunities
Elective Courses
Peace and Conflict
Curriculum
We firmly believe no undergraduate degree is complete without experiencing the world outside one’s locale. In this light, the program offers ample exchange opportunities with universities in Europe, Asia and North America. Likewise, we also receive exchange students from similar programs worldwide, making our students a part of global classrooms.
Interdisciplinary Courses
of Information and Disinformation
Applied IR and Geopolitics
Politics of Climate Change
Home
through Case Experiments
Our internationally recognised faculty deploys contemporary methodologies to prepare students to think critically about the causalities and processes and understand real-world problems to provide solutions. This comprehensive programme prepares students for higher studies and jobs in the industry. This program will hold students in good stead for higher education and relevant career options.
The BA (Hons.) Political Science program at UPES ensures promising placements for its graduates, equipping them with a comprehensive understanding of political systems and critical analytical skills. The curriculum combines theoretical knowledge with practical insights, preparing students for diverse career paths. UPES maintains strong industry connections, fostering collaborations with renowned organizations. As a result, graduates of the BA (Hons.) Political Science programs benefit from a wide array of placement opportunities in government agencies, international organizations, research institutions, and corporate sectors. The university's dedicated placement cell plays a pivotal role in facilitating internships and job placements, providing students with the necessary exposure and networking opportunities to kickstart their professional journeys in the dynamic field of political science.
Going beyond classroom teaching, the program offers praxis-based fellowship opportunities to students. As part of this module, students will be placed as fellows to work with Members of Parliament, Think Tanks, NGOs, Embassies, and International Organizations.
A BA in Political Science program offers students a comprehensive understanding of core theories and concepts in Political Science and Public Policy. Students can connect theoretical concepts with real-world empirical material through this program and apply their knowledge practically. The curriculum covers various subjects, including Indian politics, democratic institutions, citizenship, gender issues, contemporary social, political, economic, and policy matters in India, as well as international relations, climate, and sustainability. Graduates of this program possess a comparative orientation that enables them to address socio-political and economic challenges and propose innovative solutions effectively. They acquire the skills to identify complex policy and governance issues, analyze causal relationships, and think creatively to solve policy puzzles. Overall, a BA (H) in Political Science equips students with a strong foundation in political analysis and prepares them for various career paths in politics, public administration, policy-making, research, and other related fields.
Email Address
History of Ideas (India): 1947
Indian Constitution: A Living Document?
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Admission Process
Political Science
The minimum eligibility criteria for BA in Political Science to be fulfilled by interested students is as follows: 50% in 10th & 12th (Any Stream).
Apply now
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
The globally recognisable programme in Political Science provides students with a conceptual and empirical grounding in Political Science and Public Policy. The programme engages with case studies and field-based research to promote a deeper understanding of our surroundings. This transdisciplinary program teaches students to understand the complementarities and interconnections between allied social science disciplines and sub-fields of Political Science such as contemporary Indian politics, Comparative Politics, Political Economy, Climate, and International relations. The complexities of real-world challenges and the interconnectedness of socio-political and economic issues necessitate an interdisciplinary approach.
and Institutions
Further Information
Click here
Goods and Beyond
BA (Hons.) - Political Science
Course
Politics of Welfare
Last Name