Leadership & Teamwork
Apply Now
Future Scope / Industry Trends
Creative Writing
Semester 4
Digital media
Advanced Studio Production
Graduates of the
Advanced Digital Film Making
Minors
Development Communication
Critical Thinking and Writing
The second specialization, Digital Video and Audio Production targets original content creation and management. Students learn video production, editing, and distribution skills, along with digital audio skills for radio and audio production. Graduates are well-equipped to thrive in the digital video and audio landscape, creating impactful content for various media platforms. The third specialization, Mobile Journalism (MoJo) with Digital Video Production and Monetization, focuses on media storytelling using mobile phones and digital instruments. Students learn video shooting, editing, and production skills to create engaging content for media houses, marketing campaigns, and social media channels. Additionally, they explore narrative structure, visual language, distribution, and monetization strategies. Graduates become valuable assets in the contemporary digital journalism landscape.
(Broadcasting)
Semester 1
The law and the Journalist
Credit
Production Portfolio III
Platform Analytics
Eligibility
6
BA
Audio and podcast production
Technologies of the Future
Students have access to cutting-edge labs and studios, enhancing their skills with the latest tools and technologies.
Contact Us
to know more.
2
Semester 5
The future scope of the
Indian Economy: Introduction
Exploratory Elective IV
Exploratory Elective  I
and post-production
Specialisations
for detailed Fee Structure.
Digital & Mass Media
Multi-cam TV production and
Summer Internship
Semester 3
Exploratory Elective  V
School Tour
How to build a Brand on Digital
Metaverse and Social Media
Environment Sustainability &
21
Fee Structure
Writing and Reporting for
Close
Environment Sustainbility & Climate Change
The program stands out for its hands-on approach, cutting-edge technology training, and the expertise of industry professionals, preparing students to become skilled media professionals and storytellers in the digital era. Whether students aspire to excel in live broadcasting, digital video and audio production, or mobile journalism and video monetization, the program provides the knowledge and skills necessary to succeed in the dynamic and evolving world of digital media.
24
Exploratory Elective  II
Start your Start Up
Digital Studio Management: Live Broadcasting and Floor Production
Placements
Interested students must meet the minimum eligibility criteria for
4
Semester 6
Exploratory Elective VI*
20
program at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media is a six-semester program that equips students with comprehensive knowledge and practical skills to succeed in the rapidly changing media industry. The program offers three specialized tracks to cater to the unique demands and opportunities within the digital media landscape. The first specialization, Digital Audio Broadcasting Radio Production, Podcasts, and Distribution, focuses on live broadcasting and floor production. Students gain technical expertise and specialization in areas like live broadcasting, floor production, and technical aspects of media production. This track prepares graduates to create and manage live broadcasting tools and production, contributing to the growth of the media industry in the digital age.
BA Digital & Mass Media (Broadcasting)
BA Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)
Semester 2
Sound design and mixing
Program Details
22
non-fiction
as outlined below: 50% 10th & 12th Any Stream.
Storytelling and Data Visualization
Documentary and Creative
Mobile Journalism (Mojo): Digital Video Production and Monetisation
Content
Selection Criteria
program at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media has consistently achieved impressive placements in both national and international media companies and digital media houses. Notable organizations like NDTV, ABP News 18, and TV9 have recruited our talented students. Many graduates have secured positions in media associations, national-level media houses, and production companies. The program's emphasis on skill development and practical exposure has resulted in starting salaries for digital media freshers ranging from 4 to 10 lakh per annum, reflecting the students' exceptional skills, knowledge, and industry exposure.
3
Why Media Matters: Introduction to
Climate Change
Reporting the other India
Academics
Motion Graphics
Floor management
School of Liberal Studies and Media
How To Apply
Digital Audio Broadcasting: Radio Production, Podcasts and Distribution
MoJo: Producing Video and Audio
program provides placement assistance for up to 5 years, ensuring graduates have ample support to kickstart their careers in the media industry.
Blogging and Web publishing
Research Methodology
Production Portfolio II
3*
,
program boasts experienced and esteemed media professionals as faculty members, ensuring quality education and industry insights.
Production Portfolio - I
Global Cinema: Critical Perspectives
Students undertake significant projects during the program, providing practical and hands-on experience in the field of Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting).
Scriptwriting for Video and audio
Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)
Program Highlights
Minor Project
Semester 8
(Living Lab)
Search Engine Optimization and
Career Opportunities
Curriculum
Story & Script writing
The
Home
UPES is India's only digital-first media school, emphasizing the importance of digital media in today's media landscape.
Digital Photography
program is promising in the dynamic digital landscape of the media industry. With the current shift towards digital media, students are encouraged to stay updated with changing trends. This program offers opportunities in diverse professional fields, including social media, digital marketing, communication, strategic media, SEO, digital publishing, website management, and digital content creation through audio or podcast. The focus on the evolving digital landscape ensures that graduates are equipped with specialized skills in Digital Media and Mojo, positioning them well for success in the job market.
Anchoring and Standup Reporting
UPES has an industry alliance with Hub hopper, offering a distinctive podcasting course, keeping the curriculum up-to-date with industry trends.
TOTAL
Living Conversations
CSR (Media)
Fundamentals of Social Media
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
and Principles
Writing for social media: Introduction
BADMM Capstone project
Overview
Admission Process
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Indian Polity: Democracy and the State
Social Internship
Video Editing
Advanced Sound for Broadcasting
The selection criteria for students interested in pursuing a
Further Information
Design Thinking
offered by UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media depend on the individual's performance in the Personal Interview.
Media and Entertainment Industry
Political Communication
Varied Specialisations to pick from
Click here
Link
program at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media can explore diverse and promising career opportunities. With a specialization in Broadcasting, students can venture into professions involving audio-video production, multimedia content development, and broadcasting management. Potential career paths include roles in television and radio production, digital media management, content creation for online platforms, and journalism. The program's comprehensive curriculum equips students with the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in the media industry. Graduates can expect competitive salaries ranging from 6 to 35 lakhs per year, depending on their expertise and experience.
Exploratory Elective  III
Working with Data
Course
0