Does UPES provide scholarships for M.Tech. Program?
Computational Fluid Dynamics
The curriculum diverges based on the chosen field of specialization.
The School of Advanced Engineering offers M.Tech. in 9 different core subjects. Along with the core subjects, students have the option to choose from subject-focused specializations and core subjects, allowing them to tailor their education to their interests and career goals.
M.Tech. (Engineering)
Such students must not be getting any financial assistance/support e.g., fellowship/scholarship/fee waiver from any other source, public or private.
What are the eligibility criteria for M.Tech. Program?
Click Here
What are the career opportunities after doing M.Tech. Program?
International internship
M.Tech. (Engineering) - Course Overview
Why study M.Tech. at UPES School of Advanced Engineering?
Minimum 60% marks at the Higher and the Senior Secondary level (10th and 12th class).
The UPES School of Advanced Engineering offers an M.Tech. program that provides students with advanced knowledge and practical skills in various engineering fields. The faculty members at the school are from renowned universities within and outside India, experienced and provide quality education to the students. The school has strong connections with various industries, which provides students with opportunities to interact with industry experts and gain practical insights. The curriculum is designed to provide valuable learning opportunities to the students through live projects, internships, and research projects. The school has a modern campus equipped with advanced labs, relevant software, a subscription to peer-reviewed journals, and various other facilities that provide a conducive environment for learning.
The M.Tech. program prepares students for high-paying job opportunities in various industries and provides the skills required to pursue a career in research and development. The dedicated placement cell of UPES assists students in securing job opportunities, and the school has a good track record of placing students in reputed companies. In summary, pursuing an M.Tech. at UPES School of Advanced Engineering can be an excellent choice for those looking to enhance their technical skills, gain practical experience, and pursue a rewarding career in engineering.
What is the average salary after the M.Tech. Program?
Prototype development
Eligibility Criteria for Fellowship for M. Tech. Students
What are the different specializations I can opt for in M.Tech. Program?
Programs
Professional Software Training (PST) and Certification
The M.Tech. program has several highlights, including a curriculum which is designed to meet industry requirements, world-class infrastructure and facilities, experienced faculty, and a strong focus on research and development. The program also offers opportunities for students to engage in hands-on learning experiences, including internships, industrial visits, and industry-sponsored projects. In addition, the M.Tech. program at UPES University has a strong emphasis on entrepreneurship and innovation, providing students with the necessary skills and knowledge to start their ventures or work in a startup environment. The program also offers opportunities for students to network with industry professionals, attend seminars and workshops, and participate in research projects.
* For further details, refer to T&C
Close
Placements
Regular (Full-Time)
Exemplary behaviour and compliance with all other norms prescribed by the University.
B.Tech./ BE in Aerospace/ Aeronautical/ Mechanical/ Civil/ Chemical Engineering with minimum 60% marks or equivalent.
UPES annual placement drive gives students a chance to interact with recruiters from leading startups and MNCs from around the world. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
Exemplary behaviour and compliance with all other norms as prescribed by UPES.
At the UPES School of Advanced Engineering, you can choose from M.Tech. in Computational Fluid Dynamics, M.Tech. in Chemical Engineering, M.Tech. in HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) and M.Tech. in Construction Technology and Management, M.Tech. in Robotics Engineering, M.Tech. in Sustainability Engineering, and M.Tech. in Petroleum Engineering, M.Tech. in Renewable Energy, and M.Tech. in E-Mobility.
Visit the individual programs and specialisation pages to know more.
School of Advanced Engineering
Minimum 60% marks at Higher and Senior Secondary level (10th and 12th class).
Industry-led courses
Certification courses
Construction Technology and Management
FAQs
Real-world/Project-based assignments
No disciplinary action was initiated/ awarded against the student.
The M.Tech. programs offered by UPES cover a vast range of engineering disciplines, including chemical engineering, petroleum engineering, construction technology and management, renewable energy, computational mechanics, Health, Safety and Environment Engineering, sustainability engineering, and robotics engineering.
Semester exchange in International premium institutes having collaboration with UPES
Selection Criteria
Sustainability Engineering
Robotics Engineering
It is passed every semester on the first attempt without any supplementary or improvement exam.
Academics
The M.Tech. program at UPES University is vast, covering various engineering disciplines such as chemical engineering, renewable energy, petroleum engineering, civil engineering, health, safety engineering, sustainability engineering, mechanical engineering, and robotics engineering. The program is focused on providing students with in-depth knowledge of their chosen specialization and equipping them with the necessary skills to solve complex engineering problems.
We at the department, believe in experiential teaching and learning and strive to imbibe problem-solving skills and critical thinking in students. The following practices are in place to improve the quality of teaching-learning and student experience.
Support entrepreneurship
Emerging tools and technology
Load More
Personal Interview
Chemical Engineering
Minimum SGPA/ CGPA 8.5 in the first semester and subsequent semesters/year.
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
Sponsored (Full-Time)
Encouraging advanced learners
These are just a few examples of the positions that graduates can apply for after completing an M.Tech. degree. The specific parts available will depend on the interests, skills, and experience of the individual graduate.
Program Fee Structure
Our curriculum is designed to provide students with a solid foundation in engineering principles, as well as hands-on experience through laboratory work, projects, and internships. The students may also have the opportunity to participate in projects, which can provide valuable hands-on experience and exposure to the industry. The curricula for the programs have been framed in consultation with industry, academia, alums, and parents to make the students industry-ready upon graduation. Graduates of our programs are well-prepared to enter the workforce or pursue advanced studies in their field.
The average salary after completing the M.Tech. program varies widely depending on several factors such as engineering discipline, industry, location, job role, and employer. However, on average, M.Tech graduates can expect to earn a starting salary of around 6-10 LPA in India. This salary can increase with experience, skills, and expertise in the chosen field.
E-Mobility
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Quality laboratory experience
Health, Safety and Environment
Career Opportunities
Students must pass every semester on the first attempt without any supplementary or improvement exam.
What is M.Tech. Program?
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Slow learners support
Home
ICT-enabled classroom (sound system, mic and projector)
Collection of feedback and reviews from our former students, providing valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Such students must not be getting any financial assistance/support e.g., fellowship/scholarship/fee waiver from any other source, public or private
Participation in conferences/seminars/workshops (national/international)
Graduates of these programs have various career opportunities in their respective fields. Robotics engineering graduates can pursue careers in, embedded systems, control systems, signal processing, and robotics. Petroleum engineering graduates can work in oil and gas exploration, production, and refining as reservoir engineers, production engineers, drilling engineers, and petroleum geologists. Construction technology and management graduates can work in construction, infrastructure, and urban development as structural engineers, project managers, environmental engineers, geotechnical engineers, offshore engineers, design engineers, project engineers, construction engineers, division heads, supervisory engineers, design consultants, quality analysts, and offshore engineer. Health, safety and environment graduates can work as safety engineers, environmental engineers, safety officers, HSE design engineers and risk engineers. Sustainability graduates can work as sustainability professionals in various industries. In summary, M.Tech. graduates from UPES have a broad range of career opportunities across multiple industries and sectors.
Minimum SGPA / CGPA 8.5 in the first Semester and subsequent semesters/ year.
Minimum of 75% attendance in the entire semester.
Scope and Highlights
What are the eligibility criteria of fellowship for M.Tech. Students?
Eligibility Criteria
Guest lectures from industry experts
.
Renewable Energy
For Hostel Fee Information,
B.Tech./ BE in relevant stream with minimum 60% marks or equivalent.
M.Tech. graduates have a wide range of career opportunities available to them, depending on their engineering discipline. They can pursue careers as Software Developers, Network Architects, Petroleum Engineers, Project Managers, Design Engineers, Project Engineers, Construction Engineers, Division Head, Supervisory Engineers, Design Consultants, Quality Analysts, Offshore Engineers, Safety Engineers, Environmental Engineers, Fire Officers, HSE Design Engineers, Risk Engineers, Sustainability Professionals, Mechanical Engineers, Robotics Engineers and more.
UPES has a record of 90%+ placement and ensures good opportunities for students as it attracts many big corporate houses. The university organizes in-campus PEP (Personality Enhancement Program) for students to develop a positive outlook and gain several skills necessary for their employability. The university will also assist all the students to grab the best internship opportunities. The students will also be offered pre-placement boot camp for the students for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training for their upcoming placements.
Innovative Teaching and Learning
Click here
Use of virtual labs
M.Tech program stands for Masters of Technology program. M.Tech. is a postgraduate-level engineering program that provides advanced technical knowledge and skills to students. The program typically requires a B.Tech. degree or equivalent as a prerequisite.
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Petroleum Engineering
Participation in competitive events (in-house/national/international)
Student Testimonials
Encourage innovation
M.Tech. or Masters of Technology is a postgraduate engineering master’s degree program in the discipline of engineering. M.Tech. is a 2-year program where students get to explore existing as well as upcoming technologies. M.Tech. at UPES is designed to provide students with specialized knowledge and skills in a specific engineering area, allowing them to pursue advanced research or careers in specialized fields. It is a 2-year program that includes both coursework and research components. The degree program can be obtained under the following categories:
Know More
Multidisciplinary and sustainable approach of creation