Emphasis on quantitative and empirics-based practice, allowing students to apply theoretical knowledge in real-life situations.
Semester 4
Course from School for Life II
+91
First Name
Minors
Graduates who hold a B.Sc. in Economics with a Data Science degree could pursue the following roles:
Course Details
Semester 1
Job Oriented
Data Analyst/Scientist
Eligibility
Course Type
Minimum 50% in 10th & 12th For B.Sc.(H) Economics with Data Science & Economics and Finance:
I accept
Please Select Condition
Data Science Elective II
Please enter email address
Contact Us
Exploratory Course II
to know more.
2
Our faculty members hail from prestigious universities like Cornell University, Delhi University, Southern Illinois University Carbondale, and Visva-Bharati (Central) University bringing a wealth of expertise and insights to the classroom. Their guidance empowers students to delve into cutting-edge research and innovative practices. In essence, the Economics with Data Science programme blends academic rigour with hands-on data analysis.
Semester 5
Economics Elective I
Exploratory Course VI
Data Structures and Algorithms
Course from School for Life III
Internship
Courses
*
and Database Management
8
Course from School for Life VI
for detailed Fee Structure.
Statistics II
Call Me
Calculus I
Semester 3
School Tour
Data Analysis in Python
Fee Structure
Close
Ideas of India
Transdisciplinary learning environment with exposure to learners from six UPES schools viz. Engineering, Computer Science, Law, Management, Design and Health Sciences.
Transdisciplinary Learning
Data for Humanities and
Economics with Data Science
Placements
Please enter first name
terms & conditions
Faculty from Renowned Institutions
Mobile Number
4
Semester 6
Research Seminar
Credits
Exploratory Course VIII
Select Course
Course from School for Life I
Linear Algebra
Semester 2
Program Details
Industry Analyst
B.Sc. (Hons.)
Economics pervades every aspect of our life be it making decisions on the amount of tax a polluting firm must pay or maximizing the welfare of society. The Economics and Data Science program at UPES embodies transdisciplinary learning and experiential pedagogy. We use real-life examples to bring the classroom to life. For example, students are asked to investigate how rents change because of distance from the university. In a world increasingly driven by data subjects like microeconomics, data science gives our students the edge to address the world’s pressing concerns.
Opportunities for developing applied skills through firsthand learning experiences in the form of internships, fellowships, research seminars and, masterclasses.
Please Select Course Type
Introduction to Machine Learning
Course from School for Life V
Time Series Econometrics
Exploratory Course VII
Exploratory Course V
policy decisions, drive meaningful change in the global economic landscape and enable data-driven decision-making across industries.
Core Courses
Selection Criteria
Econometrics II
3
Macroeconomics II
We believe that students understand better when they apply the concepts in real life. Each course in our programme engages students actively. For instance, students are engaged in paper presentations which takes learning beyond books. Additionally, students also work closely on their projects/ research papers with faculty members which helps foster analytical skills, essential for working with data. For instance, students use real-world data ranging from tourism, markets, and crime for their term papers.
Academics
Econometrics I
Microeconomics I
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Principles of Economics
How To Apply
Dissertation
Enquiry Form
Probability and Statistics I
Please enter mobile number
Economics delves into every aspect of our life, be it behaviour, sustainability or development, hence we provide students with a wide variety of courses to choose from. From courses such as Environmental Economics and Development Economics to Experimental Economics, students are free to choose according to their interests. Additionally, our faculty is also involved in transdisciplinary research. For example, our faculty are involved in research in the economics of waste, designing interventions to promote pro-environment behaviour which combines psychology and economics. Such on-site experiences of faculty keep the students abreast with the latest research and innovations in the field.
Access to globally renowned academicians, researchers, and thinkers from marquee institutions such as Cambridge, Cornell, Imperial College, and NUS Singapore enabling exposure to innovative knowledge and perspectives in the field.
Research Methodology
Students may also pursue advanced degrees in Economics or Data Science and work towards a career in Academics, Public Services, or Policymaking in the Government and NGO sectors.
B.Sc. (Hons.) - Economics with Data Science
-- None --
--None--
,
2) Non-Mathematics background students will undergo Remedial Mathematics module in Semester 1.
Market Research Analyst
Probability and
Course from School for Life IV
Personal Interview/ CUET
Economics Elective III
Introduction to Programming:
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
Semester 8
Economics Elective IV
Career Opportunities
Macroeconomics I
Elective Courses
Curriculum
Social Sciences
Global Exposure
Sampling Techniques
Experiential Pedagogy
14
Economics Elective II
Home
Exploratory Course IV
Exploratory Course I
Email Address
Handling Big Data Project
Data Science Elective I
Research Analyst
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Interdisciplinary
Admission Process
Lectures by distinguished experts, international student exchange and global collaborative research, is a hallmarks of our programme. These collaborations provide a platform for students to share and gain experiences. Our faculty members have international grants and collaborators who bring their global experience to the classroom. Our international collaborations provide a platform for students to immerse themselves in research with foreign collaborators.
Apply now
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
Calculus 2
Probability and Statistics II
With their expertise in Economics with Data Science, students will be ably skilled to inform
Further Information
Gender and Society
Exploratory Course III
Click here
1) Math/Eco in 12th will be preferred.
Environmental Studies
10
Policy analyst at thinktanks and consulting firms
Course
Last Name