Further, students can choose a minor or an exploratory subject from 200+ courses offered by other schools at UPES, including - School of Engineering, School of Law, School of Design, School of Business, School of Health Sciences, School of Modern Media, and School of Liberal Studies. Visit the individual subject pages to learn more.
SIIB 8102
CSEG 7105
Elective III (Choose Any One)
The M.Tech. CSE Course at UPES is a two-year specialised course for acquiring essential concepts such as data structures, algorithms, OOPS concepts using Java, databases, software engineering, design processes, concepts and Cyber Security and Forensics applications. Students can opt for a Core subject and choose from subject-focused specialisations. The course provides a dual advantage of subject knowledge expertise and simulated experiences that prepare them for the real world. Each semester consists of theory and hands-on training for every course, helping students develop expertise in various new fields in the engineering space. Our alumni network consists of leaders in fields ranging from AI and Blockchain to Machine Learning.
Semester 4
Assistant Engineer
Algorithm Design and Analysis
CSEG 7005
Modelling & Simulation of Digital Systems
M.Tech. or Master in Technology in Computer Science Engineering (CSE) program at UPES is a 2-year course designed to carve a career in the competitive field of Computer Science. Students can pick a specialisation in Artificial Intelligence or Cyber Security and Forensics.
Semester 1
CSIP 7005P
Click Here
Elective I (Choose Any One)
Unmatched Global Opportunities
Artificial Intelligence & Expert Systems
Data Mining & Business Intelligence
The Master of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering (M.Tech. CSE) program is specifically designed to provide students with advanced technical knowledge and skills in the field. By offering specialised training in areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, and Cybersecurity, the program equips graduates with the expertise to address complex technological challenges in various industries. Moreover, studying M.Tech. CSE at UPES provides access to cutting-edge research facilities and esteemed faculty members. With a degree from a top-ranked program, graduates gain a competitive edge in the job market and are well-prepared for exciting career opportunities. Overall, the M.Tech. CSE degree is ideal for those seeking to further their education and advance their Computer Science and Engineering skills.
17
CSAI 7005P
CSAI 7006P
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Statistical Modelling for Computer Sciences Lab
Total
Elective V (Choose Any One)
Industry collaboration with L&T, Bharat Petroleum, HPCL, Microsoft, Infosys, Aditya Birla and many more
Electronics and Communication Engineer
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
CSEG 7003
GPU Architecture and Programming
Elective II (Choose Any One)
Big Data Analytics
NoSQL Database Management
CSEG 7004
CSDA 7004P
Advance Database Management Systems Lab
Specialisations
Summer Internship
Data Communication and Computer Networks Lab
PRACTICAL
Semester 3
Modelling & Simulation of Digital Systems Lab
Lecturer
CSEG 7101
Algorithm Design and Analysis Lab
Electronics Engineer
* For further details, refer to T&C
Close
Advance Database Management Systems
Predictive Modelling
CSAI 7004P
Placements
Digital Image Processing
CSEG 7104
M.Tech.
Credits
Elective IV (Choose Any One)
CSDA 7005P
Semester 2
Software Developer
Scope and Highlights of M.Tech. CSE
Data Science
CSAI 7007P
School Of Computer Science
What are the different specialisations I can opt for in M.Tech. CSE?
UPES also offers certifications such as "EC Council Certified Ethical Hackers" and "IRCA and CQI certified ISO 27001:2013 Lead Auditors" to help students keep up with the competitive and lucrative job market.
CSCS 7002P
Natural Language Processing
18
The 2-year M.Tech. CSE program consists of selected modules crafted with inputs from top industry leaders. The coursework is designed to evolve alongside a deeper understanding of logic and application using information technology. Students also learn through regular training sessions in the University’s state-of-the-art computer labs and mandatory industry or public sector internships.
Civil Engineer
FAQs
CSDA 7001P
Artificial Neural Network & Its Applications
M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering
Why Study M.Tech. CSE at UPES School of Computer Science?
M.Tech. offers a host of opportunities in the technical field and makes one applicable for various job roles in several sectors. UPES has a robust Career Service Department in place that ensures excellent placements with well-established companies. Graduates can get hired as engineers or look for prospects in a wider range, such as subject matter experts, researchers, consultants and more. Some of the career roles you can pursue are the following:
Selection Criteria
3
Developer
Executive Engineer
CSIP 7002P
Academics
Senior Software Engineer
CSDA 7002P
Security of e-Systems and Networks
Students are expected to have a minimum of 60% marks at Higher and Senior Secondary Level (X and XII). B.Tech./BE (IT/(Hons.)) Computer Science and Engineering, MCA, M.Sc. (Physics/Mathematics/Statistics) with minimum 60% marks, or equivalent.
Computer Graphics
CSIP 7001P
UPES’ annual placement drive allows students to interact with recruiters from leading start-ups and MNCs worldwide. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
Students can develop niche expertise upon completing the course. They can choose a core subject and a specialisations from the following:
1
19
Document Image Processing and Compression
Load More
CSAI 7003P
CSIP 7003P
Computer Vision
Cyber Security and Ethics
Software Engineer
CSDA 7003P
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
M.Tech. or Master in Technology in Computer Science Engineering (CSE) program is a 2-year course designed to carve a career in the competitive field of Computer Science. Students can pick a specialisation either in Artificial Intelligence or Cyber Security & Forensics.
Production Engineer
Subject Code
The average income after completing M.Tech. Computer Science can range between INR 4 - 10 LPA in top IT companies. However, this varies on a year-on-year basis.
CSEG 7002
What are the eligibility criteria for M.Tech. CSE courses?
96.55% placement* record
Our students have received attractive packages worth up to INR 50 lakh annually through industry placements. Moreover, we offer lifetime placement assistance and guidance to all our students.
CSCS 7001P
Personal Interview.
Engineering
Principal Software Engineer
Program Fee Structure
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Data Security
Cryptography and Cryptanalysis
Chief Engineer
Here is why you should enrol in the M.Tech. CSE program at UPES:
Career Opportunities
CSEG 7103
Researcher
CSEG 7001
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Machine Learning
Home
Does UPES provide scholarships for M.Tech. CSE Program?
Project I
12
CSCS 7003P
The UPES School of Computer Science offers a range of specialised programs under the M.Tech. program. These include:
Mechanical Engineer
CSIP 7004P
Programmer
Subject
CSCS 7004P
Statistical Modelling for Computer Sciences
CSCS 7005P
PROJ 8105
PROJ 8106
What is M.Tech. CSE?
CSEG 7102
Master advanced skills and in-depth knowledge with M.Tech. CSE specialisations, including AI, ML, Data Science, Networks, Cyber Security, and more. Unlock exciting career opportunities in research, academia, and industry. Explore your passion for technology and become a specialist in your chosen field. Students can choose a core subject and a specialisations from the following:
7
Collecting feedback and reviews from our former students provides valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Fuzzy Logic and Application
Decision Management Systems
Eligibility Criteria
What are the career opportunities after doing M.Tech. CSE?
.
For Hostel Fee Information,
Assistant Professor, and more.
Project II
The M.Tech. CSE course equips students with skills they can apply in various jobs in both government and public sectors. Here are a few profiles you can apply for immediately after completing the course:
Overview of the topics covered in the MCA program including topics, duration and credit details. Despite being specialised disciplines, the courses have customised curriculum that can help students switch career domains to other technological disciplines if they wish to do so. Total credit points for M.Tech. Computer Science & Engineering is 72.
Click here
For M.Tech. Admissions candidates must have a minimum of 60% marks at the Higher and Senior Secondary level (X and XII). B.Tech./ BE (IT/(Hons.) Computer Science and Engineering, MCA, M.Sc. (Physics/Maths/Statistics), with minimum 60% marks or equivalent.
Forensic Computing
Computer Science
What is the average salary after the M.Tech. CSE course?
M.Tech. CSE - Course Overview
Data Communication and Computer Networks
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Student Testimonials
The M.Tech. CSE program at UPES is well-rounded and sets students up for success in the engineering field. Students bag industry-leading placement packages with end-to-end placement assistance from the University. Moreover, students can complete their training at world-class institutes like the University of Queensland, Australia.