Apply Now
*All scholarships are payable as per the University’s policy
Interview Result Declaration
+91
Aug 8, 2024
Last date to Pay Fee
The Ph.D. program in engineering at UPES University is designed to offer research-based education in various engineering fields. The program is structured to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of theoretical and practical aspects of engineering and the opportunity to engage in cutting-edge research.
First Name
Online Interview Booking/Scheduling
Course Details
Chemistry
School Of Advanced Engineering
PhD Regulations
Unmatched Global Opportunities
I accept
June 21, 2024
Course Type
The Civil Engineering program is best suited for those interested in the design and construction of infrastructure. In contrast, the Safety Engineering program is ideal for those interested in risk management and safety in various industries. The Electrical Engineering and Electronics Engineering programs best suits students interested in designing and manufacturing mechanical systems and machinery. In contrast, the Petroleum Engineering program is ideal for those interested in exploring, producing, and processing oil and gas resources.
Please Select Condition
Aug 4, 2024
Please enter email address
PhD - Course Overview
The program is designed to be completed in a minimum of 3 years and a maximum of 6 years, and students are required to complete coursework and undertake independent research leading to a dissertation. The coursework component of the program includes advanced courses in engineering, research methodology, and elective courses in the student's chosen field of specialisation.
*
Structure of Synopsis
Mechanical Engineering
Specialisations
Interviews
Call Me
Thesis
Additionally, the School's strong industry partnerships provide students with access to real-world engineering problems and opportunities to collaborate with industry professionals. Moreover, the School has a strong focus on sustainability and innovation, preparing students to be future engineering leaders and positively impact society. Studying for a Ph.D. at the UPES School of Advanced Engineering can provide students with a unique and rewarding experience, equipping them with the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in their careers as engineering researchers or industry leaders.
Disclaimer
Studying for a Ph.D. at the UPES School of Advanced Engineering can give students unique advantages. UPES offers a wide range of Ph.D. programs in different areas of engineering, providing students with the opportunity to specialise in their field of interest. The faculty comprises renowned researchers and industry experts who provide students with a challenging and intellectually stimulating learning environment. The state-of-the-art research facilities and resources enable students to engage in cutting-edge research and develop advanced skills in their chosen field. You should enrol in the PhD program at UPES:
Close
Email:
S.no.
The School of Engineering offers Ph.D. in-
terms & conditions
Please enter first name
Mobile Number
Electronics Engineering
Physics
Ph.D. specialisations offered by the School of Engineering at UPES University provide students with a broad range of opportunities to specialise in their areas of interest and develop advanced engineering research and development skills.
Last Date to Apply
The Ph.D. program in engineering at UPES University also provides students access to state-of-the-art research facilities and opportunities to collaborate with renowned researchers and industry partners. Students are encouraged to participate in conferences, workshops, and seminars to present their research work and interact with their peers.
Admission Details
phd@upes.ac.in
Aug 9, 2024
Select Course
Ranked 61st in India in the Engineering category by NIRF 2022
Safety Engineering
Please Select Course Type
*If a student brings their fellowship through national examinations ( viz. NET JRF, Inspire fellowship, etc.), the University will provide an additional 2 Lakhs per annum Contingency Grant support to support research activities.
Completing a Ph.D. program in engineering can open up various career opportunities for graduates. Graduates can pursue academic careers as professors or researchers in universities or research institutions. They can also work in research and development departments of various industries, such as aerospace, automotive, chemical, electrical, and mechanical engineering. With their specialised knowledge and research skills, Ph.D. graduates can also work in consulting firms, advising clients on engineering-related matters. They can also work in government agencies, such as defence and energy departments, or pursue entrepreneurship careers and start engineering-related businesses. Overall, completing a Ph.D. program in engineering provides graduates with diverse career opportunities and the skills and knowledge to excel in their chosen field.
July 18, 19 & 22 July, 2024
PhD (Engineering)
July 30, 2024
Rs 1,00,000 per semester
Why study for a Ph.D. at UPES School of Computer Science?
Aug 12, 2024
Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme
Plagiarism Certificate
Declaration for Residency Program
Academics
Submission of Research Proposal on
Key Timelines
Mathematics
Click here to download the PhD Admission Details
Enquiry Form
Load More
Please enter mobile number
Chemical Engineering
Full-Time PhD
July 3th, 2024
RET Result Declaration
-- None --
Civil Engineering
03
Orientation Date
--None--
RET Exam
Fee Details
How to Write Research Proposal
Aerospace Engineering
Pre-Admission
At the Time of Admission
75 % waiver on Program Semester fee. Program Semester fee after waiver – INR 25000.
Registration Date
Term Paper
Electrical Engineering
June 26, 2024
Best for
The School of Engineering at UPES University offers a diverse range of Ph.D. programs in different areas of engineering, catering to the varied interests and career goals of students. The Aerospace Engineering program best suits students interested in pursuing careers in the aviation and aerospace industries. In contrast, the Chemical Engineering program is ideal for those interested in designing and operating chemical processes and systems. The Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics programs suit students interested in fundamental science and pursuing careers in research and academia.
Please enter last name
July 2024 Intake
Candidates for admission to the PhD program shall have a Master's degree or a professional degree declared equivalent to the Master’s degree by the corresponding statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) or an equivalent degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by an Assessment and Accreditation Agency which is approved, recognised or authorised by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or to assure quality and standards of educational institutions. A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-abled and other categories of candidates as per extant UGC Regulations from time to time; or for those who had obtained their Master's degree before 19th September 1991. The eligibility marks of 55% (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever the grading system is followed) and the relaxation of 5% to the categories mentioned above are permissible based only on the qualifying marks without including the grace mark procedures. *Residency as UGC norms.
Career Opportunities
Geoscience
- approx. 1000 words
Home
research@ddn.upes.ac.in
Assistance for International Internships
Thesis Submission Form
Collection of feedback and reviews from our former students, providing valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Please contact R&D UPES
Important Dates
Email Address
Commencement of Session
Eligibility Criteria
June 10, 2024
A monthly stipend of INR 30000/- is payable to selected full-time PhD scholars.
Progress Report Form
Please select Course
01
Renewable Energy
Final Thesis
Term Paper Requirements
Title
Part-time Ph.D.
Program Guidelines
02
Petroleum Engineering
Student Testimonials
June 3, 2024
Download
Last Name
Synopsis/ Abstract Presentation