Future Casting
Marketing Management
Hons 4-Customs and Latest Developments
Hons 1-Private International Trade Law
Semester 4
Signature Course
SFL-Living Conversation
Admissions through ULSAT (UPES Legal Studies Aptitude Test)
L
Aviation, Air and Space Law
Start your Start-up
Intellectual Property Rights
Up to 20% of seats shall be filled through the Board Merit/CLAT AIR Category.
Specialisation
Investment and Trade Law
Minors
Hons 3-Insolvency and Bankruptcy Law
Hons 3-Wage Laws and Constitutional Protection.
Critical Thinking and Writing
Hons 4-Trade Secrets and Sui Generis IPR
Minor I (Paper 3) Business Accounting
BBA LL.B. (Hons.)
Labour Law I
Why study BBA LL.B. (Hons.) at UPES School of Law?
Minor II (Paper 2) Consumer Behaviour and Market Research
Hons 1-Copyright Law and Practice
Hons 5-Industrial Design Law
Semester 1
Banking and Negotiable Instruments Law
Board Merit
Environmental Studies & Law
Click Here
Contemporary World
Programe Elective-2 (Any one)
Company Law I
Credit
Public International Law
Semester 9
Programe Elective-1 (Any one)
BBA LL.B. (Hons.)  - Course Overview
School of Law
Scholarships for postgraduate programs
Hons 3 specialization
Competition Law
Hons 1-Legal Framework- Metaverse, Block Chain
Hons 4-Comparative Federalism
We have a vision to provide quality legal education in this new age of digital transformation. The institute is committed to not only exploring but also implementing an outcome-based education. We focus on applying the new-age learning technologies to competency-based, adaptive and collaborative education. This will help us create a learning space which meets the unique needs of every student.
Foreign Language
Program Elective II
With a placement record of 80%, (approx.) we assure exceptional career opportunities for our students. School of Law, UPES allure renowned law firms/ corporate houses, ensuring a promising future in law.
Business Economics
Hons 3
Total
Technologies of the Future
Family Law II
25
to know more.
Hons 1-International Environmental Law
Environment and Sustainability - Himalaya Fellowship
2
Program Elective I
Minor I (Paper 2) International Finance
Law Optional-Interpretation of Statutes
Semester 5
Finding your Purpose in Life
Hons 5-Socio -Economic Offences
Taxation Law
Foreign Language ( Any one)
SFL
Hons 5-International Commercial Arbitration
Banking & Insolvency Law
Drafting, Pleading and Conveyance
Semester 10
Hons 1- Criminology
Hons 2-Comparative Social security and Indian Constitution
Hons 6-Election Law
Comparative Competition Law and Policy
Intellectual Property Law
Hons 4-Foreign Investment Law
Legal History
23
Semester 3
Organizational Behavior
Hons 6-Nuclear Energy Laws and Sustainable Development
Does UPES provide scholarships for BBA LL.B. (Hons.) Program?
21
* For further details, refer to T&C
Energy & Environment Law
Corporate Law
Consumer Behavior and Market Research
Close
24
Major (Paper 1) Principles and Practices of Management
Insurance Law
The program offers students the opportunity to specialise in ten diverse subjects, each designed to equip them with the skills and knowledge required to succeed in specific fields of law. The rigorous and comprehensive program provides students with a deep understanding of the law and its role in shaping society. Faculty members are highly qualified and committed to providing students with a stimulating learning environment, allowing them to acquire the necessary skills to excel in their chosen field.
Law of Contract I
Placements
Hons 3-Securities Market Regulation
Alternative Dispute Resolution
p
4
Law of Crimes II: CrPC
Hons 3-Tax Practice and Filing of Returns
Hons 6-Law on Insurance
Semester 6
As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2024, the Ministry of Education, India, School of Law, been ranked 29 in Law and among the Top 10 Private Law colleges in India by India Today.
Major (Paper 5) Business Statistics
Solving Complex Problems
Credits
Business Statistics
Company Law II
India and Its Place in the Contemporary World
The BBA LL.B. (Hons.) program is a 5-years comprehensive and integrated undergraduate course that combines the disciplines of Business Administration (BBA) and Law (LL.B.). This course offers students a unique opportunity to gain in-depth knowledge and skills in both fields, preparing them for various career opportunities. Highly qualified faculty members teach the program, and students can choose from 10 specialisations in their third year.
Hons 3-Sustainable Energy and Environment Protection
Semester 2
The programs offered by the university have a range of features that set it apart from other law programs. The university has received numerous accolades, including a QS 5-star rating for Employability, University of the Year (North India) awarded by ASSOCHAM, and an Accredited Grade 'A' by NAAC.
Constitutional Law II
Financial Management
Hons 1-Tax Administration and Dispute Resolution
Hons 7 ( PBL)
Hons 4 specialization
Professional Ethics and Professional Accounting System
Law of Evidence
Counsilling Skills
22
Hons 4-Cyber laws & Cyber Security
Hons 5-Vulnerable employment and law
Business Accounting
Hons 2-Comparative Criminal Procedure
Hons 3-International Investment Law
Hons 6 specialization
Hons 2-Public International Trade Law
18
Major (Paper 3) Organizational Behaviour
FAQs
Minor II (Paper 1) Marketing  Management
Hons 3-Financial and Systemic Fraud
Hons 5-International Banking & Finance
Hons 2-Drone Laws, AI & Intelligence Robotics Law
Selection Criteria
Hons 2-Transformative Constitutionalism
Working With Data
Faculty and student exchange
3
Hons 5-Data Privacy & Law relating to OTT and Social Media
Fundamentals of Moot Court
Health Laws
Law of Crimes I: Indian Penal Code
Minor I (Paper 1) Financial Management
Fundamentals of Moot Courts
Academics
Major (Paper 2) Human Resource Management
Hons 6-International Taxation
Disruptive Technologies Law
Hons 6-Forensic Science and Law
1
Hons 1-Corporate Governance
Hons 1- Making of the Indian Constitution
Load More
Hons 6-Connected & Autonomous Vehicles, and Smart Cities
What is the average salary after the BBA LL.B. (Hons.) Program?
Hons 5 specialization
Hons 4-Climate Change and Energy
Hons 5-Competition Law
Hons 3-Comparative Constitutionalism
For any law graduate, Internships are crucial stepping-stones toward a thriving legal career. At School of Law, UPES, we go the extra mile to connect our students with the best internship opportunities available. This enables them to gain practical exposure, honing of their skills, and establish valued alliances in their interned organizations.
BBA LL.B. (Hons.) is a five-year integrated course combining law and business administration, providing students with a broad understanding of legal systems, business practices, and management principles. Graduates can work as lawyers, legal advisors, corporate lawyers, legal consultants, or legal analysts in law firms, corporate houses, government agencies, and non-profit organisations. They can also explore career opportunities in finance, banking, insurance, and real estate as corporate managers, human resource managers, marketing managers, financial analysts, or management consultants. BBA LL.B. (Hons.) graduates are highly sought after by employers, equipped with critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, leadership, and teamwork skills, making their careers challenging and rewarding.
Hons 6-Insolvency and Bankruptcy Law
26
Examination Pathway:
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
French
Criminal Law
CLAT Merit /L-SAT India Merit
Hons 1-Banking Laws & Practices
Hons 2-Corporate Restructuring
Law Optional-Information Technology Law
,
Services Marketing
Online modules
Law Optional-Company Law II
Hons 1-Labour welfare and Constitutional Protections
Hons 1
Hons 6
German
Program Fee Structure
Code of Civil Procedure & Limitation Act
Industrial Relations and Constitution Law
Non-Examination Pathway:
Hons 4-International Banking & Finance
Transition- National and International Legal Framework
Principles and Practices of Management
We also have MoUs with renowned institutions such as Maurer School of Law and Nottingham Trent University to provide progression opportunities for higher education. The School of Law, UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, we have appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills to students through their vast industry experience. Finally, the program offers unmatched global opportunities, ensuring students are well-prepared for the international legal market.
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Law Optional-Intellectual Property Law
Interpretation of Statutes
Hons 5
Hons 5-Comparative Legislative Relations
Hons 1 specialization
Digital Transformation
Semester 8
Labour Law II
The School of Law (SoL) is a constituent college of UPES. It brings to you highly integrated undergraduate programs aimed at creating legal and techno-legal professionals specialising in Corporate and Energy Law, besides IPR and Cyber Law. The Bar Council of India approves all programs the UPES School of Law (SoL) offers. The integrated programs offered by SoL are the first of their kind in South Asia.
Hons 4-Comparative Labour Constitutionalism
Law of Crimes II : CrPC
Career Opportunities
Hons 5-Legal Framework of Indian Oil and Gas Sector
Environment Sustainability and Climate Change (Theory)
Human Resource Management
Hons 2-Law of Trademarks
Law relating to Human Rights
Hons 8  (PBL)
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
International Finance
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Hons 3-Patent Law and Practice
At School of Law, UPES, we believe in nurturing well-rounded individuals and to boost further chances of securing a dream job, we provide a comprehensive pre-placement boot camp. This specialized training program prepares for Group Discussions (GD) and Personal Interviews (PI), ensuring that students shine during placement. Our expert faculty and industry professionals will equip students with the necessary skills and techniques to ace any interview. We are committed to shaping students into confident and accomplished professionals.
Hons 5-Corporate Tax and Planning
14
Home
Counselling Skills
Administrative Law
Mediation (with Conciliation)
Constitutional Law I
Through this program, students develop a comprehensive understanding of both the legal and business domains, allowing them to navigate complex legal issues in a corporate setting effectively. They acquire critical thinking, problem-solving, communication, and analytical skills, which are essential for success in the legal profession.
Hons 6-Commercialisation of IPR
Major (Paper 6) Project Management
Subject
Hons 3-Fintech & E-Commerce
Hons 4
Join School of Law, UPES today and embark on a transformative journey that propels you toward legal excellence. Immerse yourself in a supportive community, state-of-the-art facilities, and limitless opportunities to excel in the legal profession.
Information Technology Law
t
TOTAL
Collaborative seminars, moot courts, conferences and student competitions.
Living Conversations
Hons 2
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Scope and Highlights
Collecting feedback and reviews from our former students provides valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Major (Paper 4) Business Economics
Research collaboration
Hons 2-Goods and Service Tax
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Constitution Law
Leadership and Teamwork
Legal Methods and Legal Reasoning
Hons 2-Energy Law and Policy Goverance in International Scenario
.
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII
Jurisprudence
For Hostel Fee Information,
Social Internship
Hons 6-Law of IPR in International Trade
Hons 4-Debt Recovery Laws
Project Management
Hons 8  (PBL)
Law of Tort and Consumer Protection Laws
Design Thinking
Summer school program
The average salary for graduates of the BBA LL.B. (Hons.) program in India can vary depending on various factors such as experience, job role, location, and industry. As per industry estimates, entry-level salaries for law graduates’ range between INR 4-6 lakhs per annum. However, with experience and expertise, salaries can range from INR 8-15 lakhs per annum or more. However, it's important to note that individual skills, performance, and networking also play a crucial role in determining salary levels.
Hons 6-Feminist industrial Jurisprudence
Overall, the BBA LL.B. (Hons.) program offers students a unique opportunity to specialise in their area of interest, equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to succeed in the legal profession.
Law of Defense Studies
Click here
Private International Law
Hons 2 specialization
Environment Sustainability and Climate Change ( Living Lab)
Managing Relationships and Being Happy
Family Law I
In the coming years, we aim to focus on digital learning through a balanced combination of technology, digital content, live instruction and experiential learning. Our partnerships with global institutions would provide our students with much-needed 'international exposure at home'. We have the privilege of becoming the first Indian university to partner with the UK-based University of Law. School of Law, UPES and UK-based The University of Law (ULaw), one of the most reputed universities for legal studies globally, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that aims to provide opportunities to students such as –
Hons 2-Financial Market Regulation
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Law of Contract II
Student Testimonials
Moot Court Exercise and Internship
Course
Minor II (Paper 3) Services Marketing
Theory of Everything
0
Law of Crimes I: IPC
Transfer of Property and Easement Law
Know More
Hons 4-International Criminal Law