Dr. Monika Yadav
Apply Now
Our curriculum maintains its focus on traditional engineering while also allowing for learning with cutting-edge technology. Furthermore, specialised courses cover the areas of AI and ML, Embedded Systems, IoT, Robotics, Drives and many more. A hands-on approach is given priority with project-based learning, and life skills courses that ensure a well-rounded holistic education that creates responsible, ethical engineers to benefit society.
Software- MATLAB, TINA, Python, LabView, Proteus, Xilinx Vivado 17.2, Modelsim 10.0, ANSYS HFSS
Learn More
To foster linkages with all stakeholders for continuous improvement in academics and allied areas.
Texas Instruments (TI) Innovation Lab
To develop highly competent and skilled electrical and electronics engineering professionals of the highest integrity contributing to nation building, globally.
Department of
Associate Professor
Faculty
Equipment- Syncro-phasor unit (ABB), Motor protection Numerical relay unit (ABB), Generator protection Numerical relay unit (ABB), Distance numerical relay with bay control unit (GE), SCADA platform (Viewpoint monitor – GE)
View All
To create a culture wherein faculty and students always keep social and environmental considerations in mind whilst applying solutions to industrial problems.
Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
DST-FIST Funded Lab
The department aims to get students industry ready to be able to address and tackle the challenge of the new phase of the Industrial Revolution.
Dr. Abhinav Sharma
Xilinx Zynq®-7000 SoC. FPGA Board, Xilinx Virtex-5 FPGA, Xilinx Spartan 6 FPGA, Xilinx Spartan 3E FPGA.
VLSI Lab
Equipment – Software Defined Radio, Spectrum Analyzers, Microwave Test Benches, Emona Tims Kits.
Mission
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Assistant Professor (SG)
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Specialisations
Smart Grid Technologies
Programs
Postgraduate
Project management and finance:
Robotics Lab
About the Department
Close
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Robotic Trainer Kit, PCB Prototype Machine EP-42.
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
Equipment – Robotics System Lab Kit, TIVA TM4C123G Launchpad, TIVA TM4C129XI Launchpad, Wi-Fi CC3100 Booster Pack, MSP432P401R LaunchPad, MSP430F5529 USB Launchpad Evaluation Kit, Argon Kit, Xenon Kit, DM6437 Digital Video Development Platform Kit, TMS320C6713 DSP Starter Kit.
M.Tech.
Communication:
School of Advanced Engineering
Program Outcome
Undergraduate
Problem analysis:
To develop ethical engineers – who uphold principles in their professional and personal life.
The engineer and society:
To develop internationally competent professionals in the field of electrical and electronics industry.
Design/development of solutions:
Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Robotics Engineering
Academics
Assistant Professor-Senior Scale
Ethics:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Minors - AI&ML, IoT, Blockchain, Data science, Bio-mimetics, Sustainability engineering, Climate change, Disaster management, Reclaim engineering, Astronomy & Astrophysics, Space Engineering, Statistics & probability, Economics.
Dr. Adesh Kumar
Dr. Harshit Mohan
Battery Testing Unit
Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, and cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Advanced Communication Lab
Modern tool usage:
Senior Associate Professor
Facilities
Department of Electrical Engineering
As problems of this age get more complex, it's important that students are well-versed in subjects like AI and ML, Communication, VLSI, E-Vehicles, self-driving cars, internet of things, renewable energy, and robotics to name a few.
The Electrical and Electronics Engineering department was established in the year 2008. Presently, it offers two undergraduate programs – B.Tech. in Electronics & Computer Engineering and B. Tech. in Electrical Engineering, and one postgraduate program –  M. Tech. in Robotics Engineering.
Electrical Engineering
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Life-long learning:
Microelectronics
Dr. Devender Kumar Saini
VLSI Design and Technology
Department Details
In order to facilitate their learning, they are given an additional option to choose a specialisation to cater to the specialised skillset demanded by the industry today. The specialisations offered by the department  for the two undergraduate programs are AI and ML applications, Wearable Devices, Microelectronics, 5G & 6G technology, and Industrial Drives. The department also offers Ph.D programs in Electrical Engineering and Electronics Engineering.
AI and ML Applications
Understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Home
Computer Lab
Advanced Simulation Lab
Electronics and Computer Engineering
Advance Power System Protection Lab (Smart Grid)
Apart from this, the department is focussed on providing:
Overview
E-Vehicle and Industrial Drives
Eligibility Criteria
Read More
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Engineering knowledge:
Lab Facilities
Assistant Professor
5G and 6G Technology
Environment and sustainability:
Vision
Recognize the need for and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
Individual and teamwork:
B.Tech
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using the first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.