Board of Editors
Authors are requested to send their original, unpublished submissions in .doc/.docx format to
Dr. Dolly Jabbal
The focus of the issue is to discuss how law plays regulative and coercive roles in society and how social, political, and cultural forces impact the legal system.
Comparitive Constitutional Law
b. Position /Designation
A Central University of Garhwal
Communication of Acceptance of Abstract:
Prof. (Dr.) Ajay Kumar
SS Jaswal
Submissions can be in the form of articles, research papers and short notes. The acceptable word limit should not exceed:
The main title should be in full capitals
The submissions should be original work of the authors and must not be published elsewhere. Submissions with plagiarized content and copyright issues will be rejected out-rightly.
Footnotes should be in Times New Roman
Associate Editor
o Long Articles/Research Papers:
By sending the submissions to UPES Law Review, the author(s) agree to assign exclusive copyright in the work to UPES Law Review It shall be entitled to, without limitation, publish and reproduce the submission (or part(s) thereof) in any manner it sees fit (with due acknowledgement to the author) subject to the doctrine of fair use as enumerated under the Copyright Act.
Executive Editor
o Short Articles/Short Notes:
st
School of Law
Dr. Manika Kamthan
Format and Citation Guidelines
Contact Us
Dr. Rana Navneet Roy
Politics of Private Property
(21
write an email to Dr. Parth Sharma
Government of India.
The editors reserve the right to edit the submissions (or part(s) thereof) for publication without permission from or further notice to the author.
May 30, 2024
upeslawreview@ddn.upes.ac.in
(bold and centred 16-point font).
Publication of the Volume:
For any query and clarifications, contact us at
Labour Jurisprudence
(inclusive of footnotes)
Dr. Sachiv Kumar
Human Rights and Social Justice
Social Inequality and Poverty
The font type and size of the main text must be in Times New Roman
Close
August 15, 2024
Plagiarism should be under 10%.
Joint Secretary, Department of Justice Ministry of Law & Justice,
The legal system is also undergoing constant change because of the advent of technology and AI. It has given rise to concerns like personal privacy, data privacy, and cybercrime. The digitization of the economy has also led to threats of online financial fraud. The legal system also needs to address these manifold concerns.
Global Governance and International Law
Prof.(Dr.) Shobhalata V. Udapudi
Board Of Editors
UPES Law Review is a leading UGC CARE (ISSN Number: 2347-9620) listed annual journal published by the School of Law, UPES, Dehradun. Since its inception in 2013, it has published excellent quality articles contributed by by academicians, industry experts, and law experts. It is the flagship journal of UPES School of Law.
Professor, UPES School of Law
Associate Professor of Law at HNBGU
c. Institutional Affiliations (if any)
Associate Professor of Law, MNLU Nagpur
We are pleased to announce that UPES Law Review has successfully launched its VIII Volume on the theme of ‘Contemporary issues in Law and Society’. The journal is now entering its IX cycle with the theme “Law, Society and Politics” and we are delighted to invite submissions from academicians, professionals, industry experts and scholars for the upcoming cycle.
Raghavender GR
Dr. Abhishek Sinha
About the UPES Law Review
a. Full Name of the Author(s)
Media and Democracy
Freedom of Speech and Expression and Hate Speeches
Academics
After initial screening, short-listed submissions will go through a double-blind peer review process and the final selection will be based on that procedure.
Registrar, HPNLU, Shimla
November/December, 2024
The extended abstract must contain the central research question and research design along with the proposed title and keywords
Dr. Parth Sharma
Call for Papers
Editor-in-chief
Dr. Mamta Rana
The submissions must be accompanied by a cover letter bearing the following information:
(800 words)
Sub-titles should be in sentence case
Joint Registrar NCLT Ahmedabad Bench
Dean, UPES School of Law
parth.sharma@ddn.upes.ac.in
Archives
Governance and accountability
Submission of Extended Abstract:
Publication Policy
July 1, 2024
The name of the file must contain the Name of the Author(s) + the Title of the Submission.
Gender Jurisprudence
CNLU Patna
Professor, WBNUJS
View All Members
Submission Timelines
Law Review
Dr. Sandeepa Bhat
d. Contact Details of the Author(s)
Associate Professor, RGNUL
Associate Professor, HNLU
(font size 10)
UPES Law Review
(bold and 12-point font).
Note: The above sub-themes are only illustrative. UPES Law Review would welcome papers on other topics related to Law, Society and Politics.
Dr. Sharanjit
Citation must be in
District Judge, Delhi
Prof. Juan Martin Morando
Dr. Priya A Sondhi
(.doc or .docx preferred).
Call For Papers
Home
Bluebook Uniform Style of Citation
Climate Change and Sustainability
Professor, NLUO
Personal Laws and Rights
Hon. Chandra Shekhar
Professor, GNLU
The modern political system treats law as a strait jacket solution to most of the problems, which has also raised questions on the adequacy and efficacy of the legal systems. The analysis of the issues in the implementation of the law has highlighted the intersection of law, society, and politics, and we need to foster discussions on contemporary issues from different socio-legal-political perspectives. The postmodern approach to law has enriched the discourse by acknowledging the interdisciplinarity of the problem. It is imperative to study the impact of theories of economics, political science, economics, and sociology on law. The law doesn’t operate in a vacuum; it impacts society and gets affected by social and political events. Thus, it becomes essential to examine the impact and relationship of law on issues of morality, rights and duties, crime and punishment, free speech, democracy, inequality, private property etc.
Click here to download
Managing Editor
Submission of Full Paper:
(12-point font).
Adjunct Professor, Austral University, Argentina
Submission Guidelines
UPES
Eligibility Criteria
UPES Law Review - 2022 edition -
.
About The UPES Law Review
Associate Professor Bennet University, Greater Noida
Dr. Shikha Dimri
The challenges coming from society are diverse and are evolving constantly. Adapting to these challenges requires collaboration, innovation, and a commitment to upholding justice, equality, and the rule of law in an increasingly interconnected and complex world. As States strive to navigate this ever-changing landscape, it is inevitable to understand the impact of these challenges on the relationship between law, society, and politics.
The following themes are suggested:
Submission Procedure
Dr. Shilpika Pandey
Dr. Himanshu Pandey
New Social Movements
Electoral System - One Nation One Election, Electoral Bonds, etc.
Submission in a Microsoft Word-compatible format
UPES Law Review - 2023 edition -
edition).
4000 to 5000 words
OR
Technology and Law
7000 to 9000 words