Modern Physics
Photocatalytic reactor
Organic Chemistry
Apply Now
Dr. Amit Kumar
Learn More
Environment and Sustainability:
Department of
Faculty
Bomb Calorimeter
View All
Chemistry
Polymer Chemistry
Orbital shaker
Pure Mathematics
Centrifuge
Life-long Learning:
Computational Physics
Applied Mathematics
Material Science and Nano technology
Mission
Assistant Professor (SG)
The Department was established to equip engineering students with fundamental concepts of Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics.
Specialisations
Programs
Conductivity meter
Postgraduate
About the Department
Select and apply appropriate techniques/tools effectively including graphical techniques, IT tools, reports and presentations within the scientific environment.
Amit Awasthi
Close
Optics
Geo-Informatics
Teamwork and Ethics:
Physics
Polymer Science
In the year 2018, the department started its own UG programs, B.Sc. (H) in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry and subsequently started PG programs in 2019. The Ph.D. program was also started in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics to produce high-quality researchers in several areas of Fundamental and Applied Sciences.
Modern Tool Usage:
Communication:
Semiconductor Physics
Geology
Research:
Data Science
To set, and be a benchmark as being an intellectually evolutionary sector that is able to have a transformative influence on society through continuous innovation in Education and Research
School of Advanced Engineering
Understand the impact of the scientific solutions in societal and environmental contexts, demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Program Outcome
Material Science and Nonotechnology
Undergraduate
Applied Sciences
Biodiesel reactor (Lab scale)
pH meter
Petro-OXY meter
Academics
The department boasts of a team of highly-acclaimed researchers and faculty members who have expertise in the fields of material science, nanotechnology, applied optics, modeling and simulation, biofuels, composite materials, polymers, photo-catalysis, organic synthesis, solar cells, water treatment, optimisation, fluid mechanics, image processing, numerical analysis, differential geometry, etc. Many of them have been recognised by various academic bodies within and outside India, and have also received prestigious awards and fellowships.
Minors - AI&ML, IoT, Blockchain, Data science, Bio-mimetics, Sustainability engineering, Climate change, Disaster management, Reclaim engineering, Astronomy & Astrophysics, Space Engineering, Statistics & probability, Economics.
Density meter
B.Sc.(Hons.)
Mathematics
Dr. Akmal Husain
Provide a foundation for preparing professionally-trained and committed individuals by offering holistic training, guidance and support
Rotary Vacuum Evaporator
Electricity and Magnetism
Abhishek Kumar Mishra
Investigate experimental, computational or theoretical research problems from science and mathematics domains independently.
Senior Associate Professor
Potentiometric titrator
Facilities
Demonstrate professional attitude with effective communication that supports and enhances individual/team performance.
Problem Analysis and Solution:
Formulate and analyse scientific approach for solving real-life problems that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the broader understanding of subject.
Data Analysis and Interpretation:
For an  industry-ready learning experience, the department has access to several state-of-the-art student labs and research-grade instruments for performing high-end research. Global collaboration partners from Germany, Japan, Slovenia, Switzerland, the US, etc. in several research areas of mutual interest allow students to gain a broader, global perspective.
It has carried out and completed a large number of research and consultancy projects funded by national (DST, BPCL, IOCL, DST-SERB) and international (ABB) organisations.
To get students industry ready to be able to solve real business problems, while developing their leadership abilities by sharpening their communication and interpersonal skills
Function effectively as an individual and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings by applying the ethical principles.
Recognize the need to engage in lifelong learning through continuing education and research.
Chemistry Lab Facilities
Astronomy and Astrophysics
Department Details
Value-added experiments
Home
Explain the theoretical, conceptual, computational and experimental knowledge of science and mathematics to the solution of scientific problems.
Demonstrate knowledge of science and mathematics and its various principles and apply them to handle projects in multidisciplinary environments.
Instrumental Chemical Analysis
Mechanics
Overview
Knowledge of the fundamental principles of any discipline is key to obtaining an overall and in-depth understanding of the subject. The Department of Applied Sciences aims to fulfill this exact need. By fostering the fundamental principles and understanding of science, these courses aim to enhance the students’ overall learning experience.
Demonstrate, analyse and interpret the scientific data to provide the appropriate solution to the problem.
Eligibility Criteria
The department also prides itself on being sought out for research and consultancy projects.
M.Sc.
Dr. Abhilash Sahu
Brookfield Viscometer
Read More
Scientific Project Handling:
Assistant Professor
Scientific Knowledge:
Vision
Department of Applied Sciences
Develop and disseminate scientific and technological knowledge through unique methods of quality teaching, research, and outreach activities
Provide an environment conducive to an open, free-flowing knowledge sharing experience for the teachers, staff and students to ensure quality education for all
Physics Lab Facilities
UV/Visible Spectrophotometer
Industrial Chemistry