Leadership & Teamwork
Fundamentals of Meal Planning
. Accredited professionals in this field have the privilege of collaborating with prestigious institutions, including hospitals, corporations, and the sports industry. Upon completion of their studies, prospective candidates can explore several promising career paths.
Apply Now
Future Scope / Industry Trends
The process of selection criteria for students interested in pursuing
1.5
Semester 4
16
L
Start your Start-up
Minors
The program focuses on the holistic development of students, ensuring they acquire a well-rounded skill set encompassing technical expertise, communication skills, and critical thinking abilities.
5
Critical Thinking and Writing
Environment Sustainability & Climate Change
Semester 1
Sports Nutrition
Credit
Human Anatomy and Physiology
Diet Therapy-II
Eligibility
6
Technologies of the Future
Diet Therapy-I
Contact Us
to know more.
B.Sc. Food, Nutrition and Dietetics
2
Semester 5
Principles of Nutrition
The future scope of the
Industrial Training/Survey/Project
Specialisations
for detailed Fee Structure.
Biosafety and Aseptic techniques
Community Nutrition
The students may pursue the following professional paths in the field of
Semester 3
School Tour
Fee Structure
Close
24
Principle of Dietetics
Institutional Food Service Management
Environment Sustainibility & Climate Change (Living Lab)
Immunology
Placements
Fundamentals of Biostatistics
The minimum eligibility criteria for
Curriculum 2023-2027
4
Semester 6
20
P
Food Processing Manager
Semester 2
Ability Enhancement/Co-curricular
The program addresses the needs of healthcare professionals involved in translational health research and patient-oriented studies, ensuring students are prepared to contribute effectively in this field.
Program Details
Food, Nutrition, and Dietetics
School of Health Sciences and Technology
22
Public Health Nutritionist
Meal Planning
Nutrition Through the Lifecycle
Food Safety Auditor
Selection Criteria
T
3
Academics
UPES places great emphasis on practical training and industry exposure for its students. Hands-on training is provided through practical sessions, industrial visits, hospital internships, and master classes conducted by experts. This allows students to apply their knowledge and skills in real-world settings and gain valuable industry experience. The
program also offers opportunities for students to work on dissertation projects at renowned companies and institutions in the field of food, nutrition, and dietetics, including Fitello, Fitmantra, ZenOnco.io, Healthians, Nestle, Britannia, Parle, AIIMS, Fortis Escorts, and Max Hospital.
How To Apply
1
Epidemiology and Global Health
Students gain hands-on experience through practical training and internships, enabling them to apply their knowledge in real-world settings.
Nutritionist
B.Sc. in Food, Nutrition, and Dietetics
Principles of Biochemistry
program offered by UPES is a comprehensive three-year undergraduate program designed to provide students with a strong foundation in managing nutrition and promoting healthy eating habits. The program covers a wide range of subjects related to food science, public health, food safety and laws, and mother and child nutrition. Additionally, specialized courses in sports nutrition and nutrition in stressed conditions are also offered to address emerging trends in the field.
,
One of the key focuses of the program is the understanding and application of therapeutic diets for managing various diseases, including those related to the cardiac, liver, kidney, gastrointestinal, neurological, and inborn errors of metabolism. The curriculum also includes application-based subjects from basic life sciences, such as biochemistry, microbiology, anatomy, and physiology, to provide students with a holistic understanding of dietary management.
Computer Application & Bioinformatics
offered by UPES is based on the individual's performance in Personal Interview / CUET.
4.5
B.Sc.
Program Highlights
Food Nutrition and Dietetics
Career Opportunities
program aims to develop students as lifelong learners and leaders in the field of Nutrition and Dietetics, enabling them to excel in educational, technical, administrative, and research roles.
B.Sc. Health Sciences
Curriculum
Dietitian
The
Home
Curriculum 2024-2028
Food Microbiology
Living Conversations
Students are trained to interpret, implement, and adhere to clinical research ethics, laws, regulations, and guidelines, both at the national and international levels.
TOTAL
Food, Nutrition
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Admission Process
Overview
Eligibility Criteria
Bioinstrumentation
to be fulfilled by interested students is as follows: Minimum 50% Marks at X & XII with Physics, Chemistry, Biology / Math’s, and English as a Major Subject in XII
Further Information
In today's society, there is a growing emphasis on leading a healthy and physically active lifestyle. This trend has opened up diverse career opportunities for individuals who hold a
Design Thinking
program is promising. With food-related problems claiming fifteen lives every minute globally, there is a critical need for experts in the field of nutrition. The imbalanced distribution of resources has resulted in obesity and starvation affecting numerous individuals. To tackle this issue, the demand for nutritionists is expected to increase. The growing population exacerbates the challenges associated with food, necessitating innovative approaches and methodologies. Choosing a career as a nutrition specialist is not only personally fulfilling but also beneficial for society as a whole. By acquiring the necessary skills and knowledge through this program, individuals can contribute to addressing the pressing issue of food-related problems and make a positive impact on people's lives.
Click here
Food Safety and Laws
EDGE – Advance Communication
EDGE-SoftSkills
Elective Course
program at UPES offers a comprehensive curriculum that equips students with foundational knowledge and practical skills needed for further studies and employment in the industry.
and Dietetics
, as listed below:
Working with Data
Course
program boasts an average annual salary of Rs. 3.80 Lakhs, with the highest recorded salary reaching Rs. 5 Lakhs per year. Graduates from this program have attracted interest from prominent organizations such as Fitelo, Zydus Group, and Zyla Health, who have emerged as key recruiters in the field.
Fundamentals of Food Science
0