*Placement statistics refer to the number of students who have opted for and are eligible for placements
With an ethos of innovation, sustainability, and societal impact, the School of Advanced Engineering is dedicated to shaping engineers who build a smarter, more sustainable, and inclusive future.
Stories of Excellence
The UPES School of Advanced Engineering is dedicated to nurturing future engineers with a strong foundation in theoretical knowledge and the ability to apply it to address local and global challenges. Through advanced curriculum, academic collaborations, and industry partnerships, SoAE equips students with industry-specific knowledge and concepts that are relevant to the future of engineering.
Academics
Student Achievements
+
Committed to interdisciplinary collaboration, the school integrates engineering with science, business, and design to create holistic solutions addressing global and local challenges. Its partnerships with industry and academia amplify opportunities for research, internships, and placements, ensuring students are primed for success.
Home
Students Placed*
Know More
Assistance for International Internships
LPA Highest CTC in 2023
Programs
Close
Minimum 3 characters require
19
Rank in India in Engineering Category by NIRF Ranking, 2024
Placements
42
*' All programs listed here are subject to approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
(basis JEE Mains Score)
Faculty
View All
Alumni Achievements
Unmatched
330
Last Date to Apply
Engineering solutions for tomorrow
: February 25, 2025
Top 10% Average CTC
With a focus on emerging technologies such as robotics, AI, advanced manufacturing, and renewable energy, the school equips students to design sustainable solutions that drive technological progress. Through experiential learning and cutting-edge labs, students gain hands-on expertise, ensuring they graduate as leaders ready to innovate across industries.
Opportunities
Placement Highlights 2024
Eligibility Criteria
Advanced Engineering
30
April 9 - 10, 2025
SCHOOL OF
Faculty Achievements
LPA
Sustainability Fair 3.0
Number of Offers
nd
33
Semester Exchange
For B.Tech. Admissions
Semester abroad opportunity at The University of California, Berkeley
School of Advanced Engineering
Programs offered
Campus Buzz
Global
Highest CTC
Advisory Board
Masters Progression Opportunities at IUPUI, ULaw, Nottingham Trent University (UK) and University of Queensland (Australia)
View all
International Credit Transfer Program with The University of Queensland (Australia), and University of Aberdeen (UK)
The university boasts of a robust and efficient career services department. Its partnership
with industries ensures that the students have adequate exposure and quickly get absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. UPES focuses on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are equipped to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
Global Program - 2 years at UPES and 2 years at the international academic partner's campus
280
Top Recruiters
Engineering Solutions for Tomorrow
Number of Students Placed*
UPES School of Advanced Engineering stands at the forefront of innovation, preparing future-ready engineers to solve the world’s most complex challenges. By combining rigorous academics, advanced research, and industry-aligned practices, the school fosters a culture of excellence and impact.