Clinical Research Manager
B.Sc. Chemistry
Click Here
UPES’ annual placement drive gives students a chance to interact with recruiters from leading startups and MNCs from around the world. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
B.Sc. Mathematics / Chemistry / Physics
Academic planning and monitoring
UPES School of Advanced Engineering offers a B.Sc. program is designed to provide students with a strong foundation in various fields of science, including applied sciences and geology. Students may also have the opportunity to participate in internships or apprenticeships, which can provide valuable hands-on experience and exposure to the industry.
Programs and Specialisations
B.Sc. Physics
B.Sc. or Bachelor of Science is an undergraduate program that offers an in-depth study of a particular subject area in science. The program typically spans over a period of three years, and students are required to complete a set of core courses, elective courses, and a research project in their chosen subject area. B.Sc. programs aim to develop a strong foundation in science and analytical thinking, and prepare students for a range of careers in science and technology, as well as further studies at the postgraduate level.
B.Sc. Geology
Biostatistician
Scientific Writer
Prototype development
UPES has a record of 90%+ placement and ensures good opportunities for students as it attracts many big corporate houses. PEP (Personality Enhancement program) for students to develop a positive outlook and gain several skills necessary for their time at the university. The university will also assist the students in grabbing the best internship opportunities. The students will also be offered pre-placement boot camp for the students for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training for their upcoming placements.
Professional Software Training (PST) and Certification
Personal Interview/CUET
* For further details, refer to T&C
The School of Advanced Engineering offers a B.Sc.(Hons.) in Applied Sciences and a B.Sc. (Hons.) in Geology. The duration of the program is 3 years. Each program offers a range of specializations, allowing students to tailor their education to their interests and career goals. The B.Sc. program is a full-time 3-year undergraduate program, based on UGC’s Choice Based Credit System (CBCS). In the CBCS system, students have the freedom to choose core, elective, and skill-based courses. In addition, students are also provided support for the preparation of the JAM (Joint Admission Test for M.Sc. programs) entrance exam as well as placement in industries.
The B.Sc. in Applied Sciences covers a wide range of subjects, such as Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Geology, and aims to equip students with the practical knowledge and skills required in the field of science. The course is intended for those who wish to pursue a career in research, academia, or industry.
Close
Placements
Minimum 50% marks at Higher & Senior Secondary level (X & XII) & Minimum 50% aggregate in PCM/PCB (Physics, Chemistry & Mathematics or Biology) at Senior Secondary level (XII).
Studying B.Sc. at UPES School of Advanced Engineering provides students with a comprehensive education, industry exposure, and practical training, making them well-equipped. The program offers a wide range of scope for graduates. They can pursue further studies in various fields like Master in Science (M.Sc), Masters in Business Administration (MBA), and Law, or opt for job opportunities in fields like Research and Development, Data Analysis, and many more.
The curriculum diverges based on the chosen core subject as well as the field of specialization. Visit the individual pages to learn more.
NPTEL lectures
School of Advanced Engineering
Industry-led courses
Certification courses
Some of the highlights of B.Sc. programs include a strong foundation in the subject area, hands-on experience through laboratory work and projects, exposure to research, and opportunities to explore various career paths. The program also provides opportunities for personal and professional development through extracurricular activities, internships, and industry collaborations.
FAQs
Real-world/Project-based assignments
What is the eligibility criteria for B.Sc. Program?
What are the career opportunities after doing B.Sc. Program?
What is the average salary after the B.Sc. Program?
Selection
Graduates can also choose to pursue higher studies in their chosen subject area, leading to a Master's degree or a Ph.D.
Selection Criteria
Design and review of individual course plans at the beginning of session
Bachelor of Science
B.Sc. courses in India are a gateway to many job opportunities in a variety of sectors like healthcare industry, chemical industry, educational institutes, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology industry and more. UPES University has tied up with some prominent names in the industry like HCL, Hyundai, SAP and others which makes getting placement opportunities easier for students. There are numerous job roles that you can take:
ICT-enabled classroom (sound system, mic, and projector)
Academics
Chemist
Lab Chemist
B.Sc. (Hons.) Geology
Consultant
Load More
level (X & XII) & Minimum 50% aggregate in PCM/PCB
Encouraging advanced learner
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
B.Sc. (Hons.) - Course Overview
What is B.Sc. Program?
Why study B.Sc. at UPES School of Advanced Engineering?
Market Research Analyst
The program includes both theoretical and practical components, with students being required to complete various projects, assignments, and laboratory work. The curricula for the program have been framed in consultation with industry, academia, alumni, and parents to make the students industry-ready upon graduation. Graduates of our programs are well-prepared to enter the workforce or pursue advanced studies in their field. Along with the core subject, students have the option to choose from subject-focused specializations which are:
UPES provides a range of specialisation in B.Sc. making it easier for students to pick their preferred stream. High technology is used for imparting learning through an experienced faculty in a world-class academic infrastructure. This helps students pick up a range of expertise useful to their work along with transferable skills.
Program Fee Structure
Nestled in the picturesque settings of Dehradun, Uttarakhand, the university provides a calm ambience conducive to mental and physical growth. It boasts of a global knowledge eco-system designed on the pillars of effective training, research & development, and consultancy. With a global bend towards necessary training and learning, UPES prepares you to take up the best job roles and succeed in your career.
Along with the core subject, students have the option to choose from subject-focused specializations which are:
Senior Secondary level (XII).
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Quality laboratory experience
B.Sc.
Data Scientist
We, at the department, believe in experiential teaching and learning and strive to imbibe problem-solving skills and critical thinking in students. The following practices are in place to improve the quality of teaching-learning and student experience.
Research Scientist
Career Opportunities
Researcher
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Slow learners support
Home
After completing a B.Sc. program, graduates can pursue a range of career opportunities in various sectors such as research and development, data analysis, education, healthcare, and many more. Some of the job roles include
Collection of feedback and reviews from our former students, providing valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Biotechnologist
Participation in conferences/seminars/workshops (national/international)
Does UPES provide scholarships for B.Sc. Program?
Personal Interview / CUET
B.Sc. Mathematics
Research Analyst
Scope and Highlights
Eligibility Criteria
Guest lectures from industry experts
These are just a few examples of the positions that graduates can apply for after completing a B.Sc. degree. The specific positions available will depend on the interests, skills, and experience of the individual graduate.
.
Applied Sciences (B.Sc. Chemistry, B.Sc. Physics, B.Sc. Mathematics)
For Hostel Fee Information,
(Physics, Chemistry & Mathematics or Biology) at
Scientific Assistant
Innovative Teaching and Learning
Click here
Minimum 50% marks at Higher & Senior Secondary
Use of virtual labs
Core
Quality Control Manager
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Participation in competitive events (in-house/national/international)
Student Testimonials
The average salary after completing a B.Sc. program in India can range from ₹ 3-6 LPA depending on the job role, experience, and organization. Graduates with higher qualifications and work experience can earn even higher salaries. The salary may also vary depending on the field of specialization, with some fields like data science and biotechnology offering higher salaries compared to others.
Course Completion Report (CCR)
Bachelor of Science is a course that not only offers a good salary package but also comes with great job satisfaction. Opportunities in this field are widespread and are not restricted to a specific domain. Students can join big multinationals, go in research field, or even choose animation and IT industry. They can also try out streams like marketing, business, and many other technical avenues.
Know More
What are the different specializations I can opt for in B.Sc. Program?