Global Immersion to the UK
Stories of Excellence
550
Academics
Student Achievements
+
Rank in India in Management Category by NIRF 2024
Watch Now
Home
Students Placed*
12
Placement Offers*
Close
29
For MBA Admissions Last Date to Apply : February 25, 2025
With a strong global perspective, it fosters leaders who can navigate diverse markets and cultural contexts. It is a hub for entrepreneurial growth, supported by Runway start-up incubator, that provides mentorship and strong industry networks.
With ongoing efforts toward accreditations from Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and Association of MBAs (AMBA), the school is fully committed to global academic standards, ensuring that it remain at the forefront of business education and industry relevance.
Minimum 3 characters require
Take A School Tour
Placements
*' All programs listed here are subject to approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
Faculty
At the UPES School of Business our goal is to provide a transformative education that prepares the next generation of leaders for the global digital economy. Our curriculum focuses on new technologies that are rapidly transforming the nature of business and consumer experiences. We aim to equip our students with the skills needed to adapt to disruption and thrive in rapidly-changing workplaces.
View All
Alumni Achievements
Students visited top universities, attended lectures, and interacted with leaders
Unmatched
Strong industry integration and a thriving alumni network creates avenues for the students to return as mentors. This collaboration bridges the gap between academia and industry, offering students access to invaluable insights from seasoned professionals.
Top 10% Average CTC
Highest CTC in 2024
20
Opportunities
Placement Highlights 2024
st
Eligibility Criteria
SCHOOL OF
Faculty Achievements
LPA
Semester abroad with a tuition fee waiver at University Canada West and ULaw Business School.
Transformative and future-focused, UPES School of Business bridges academic excellence with real-world relevance. It emphasises industry-aligned education, integrating cutting-edge knowledge and emerging trends like AI and digital transformation to prepare students for the challenges of tomorrow.
41
Campus Buzz
Programs offered
Semester abroad opportunity at the University of California, Berkeley.
Global
250
Highest CTC
School of Business
Advisory Board
B-School for the digital world
690
Masters Progression opportunities with Nottingham Trent University and ULaw Business School
View all
Start-ups incubated
UPES School of Business is committed to delivering transformative education through an ecosystem that combines experiential learning, global immersion, and industry engagement to drive superior student outcomes. By fostering a culture of learning by doing, the school prepare students to excel in dynamic environments through hands-on industry projects and mentorship,
The university boasts of a robust and efficient career services department. Its partnership
with industries ensures that the students have adequate exposure and quickly get absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. UPES focuses on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are equipped to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
Business
The B- School for the Digital World
Top Recruiters
Co-Teaching by UCW & ULBS
Programs