School Of Law
16
Law
Minimum 3 characters require
Faculty
View All
28
100
Rank in India in Law category by NIRF 2024
Opportunities
School of Law
Partner Khaitan & Co.
Former DGP, Uttarakhand
Rank overall in India by BW Legal World 2023
Partner Economic Laws Practice
Advisory Board
Number of Recruiters
Mr. Yogesh Bhattarai
View all
Mr. Rajdeep Choudhury
The university boasts of a robust and efficient career services department. Its partnership
with industries ensures that the students have adequate exposure and quickly get absorbed into professional roles on completion of their studies. UPES focuses on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are equipped to hit the ground running in their respective fields.
The New Age Law School
Mr. Vineet Shingal
Programs
+
Deputy Managing Partner DSK Legal
Close
Master progression opportunities at ULaw, Maurer School of Law, Nottingham Trent University and Moritz School of Law
Placement Offers
Placements
*' All programs listed here are subject to approval of the UPES Academic Council. UPES reserves the right to introduce/discontinue/modify new/existing programs at its sole discretion, without prior intimation to any party.’
20
Mr. Amitabh Sharma
Partner at NorthExcel Associates
April 11 - 13, 2025,
Soumava Chatterjee
Partner Trilegal
Academics
Leveraging AR/VR labs, moot court simulations, and other digital tools, students engage in immersive learning experiences that replicate real-life scenarios, enhancing their practical skills and preparing them for future legal challenges. This blend of technology and traditional legal education ensures that graduates are equipped with the skills and knowledge to lead in an increasingly digital and interconnected world.
Programs & Specialisations offered
Vidhi Utsav
Unmatched
UPES School of Law is dedicated to providing quality legal education and prioritising outcome-based education. By incorporating new-age learning technologies, the school offers competency-based, adaptive, and collaborative education. This creates a learning environment that equips students with the skills and knowledge they need to thrive in the evolving legal landscape.
Highest CTC in 2024
Placement Highlights 2024
SCHOOL OF
Gauhar Mirza
Ms. Tullika Jesrani
General Counsel - Legal, Secretarial & Compliance, Member of the Board; Kimberly Clark
Global
Semester abroad opportunity at the University of California, Berkeley
Highest CTC
Barrister & Empanelled Arbitrator
Top Recruiters
Dr. Surya Prakash
Stories of Excellence
Student Achievements
Mr. Anil Raturi
Ms. Aakanksha Joshi
Home
The school takes pride in its alumni who have made their mark as legal professionals, policymakers, and social entrepreneurs, advocating for justice, human rights, and sustainable change.
Founding Partner, ANR Law LLP
Former Registrar General, High Court of Uttarakhand
Justice VK Maheshwari
190
th
Director and Asst. General Counsel, Bank of America
Eligibility Criteria
Faculty Achievements
LPA
Read More
Mr. Sharad Abhyankar
Campus Buzz
Partner, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas
Mr. Sajit Suvarna
Professors of Practice
Professor & Head- CBRN, National Institute of Disaster Management
Co-Teaching with ULaw
Coming Soon
Dr. Ajar Rab
Senior Partner, Khaitan & Co
UPES School of Law is a pioneer in shaping tech-savvy legal professionals for the future, equipping students with skills to navigate the evolving legal landscape, where technology like artificial intelligence, blockchain, and data analytics are reshaping traditional legal frameworks. It is committed to providing a transformative legal education that seamlessly integrates industry expertise, innovative learning, and exceptional student outcomes. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical experience, the school nurtures the next generation of legal professionals with strategic initiatives that bring real-world legal practices to the classroom. M&A (Mergers & Acquisitions) Lab and ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) Lab are designed in collaboration with leading law firms, providing students with unparalleled exposure to industry insights, case studies, and live legal issues. These partnerships also enable a continuous flow of relevant content, offering a hands-on learning experience through real-time modules and sessions conducted by industry experts.
Semester abroad with a tuition fee waiver at ULaw