+91
Does UPES provide scholarships for B.Sc. Hons. Program?
First Name
Click Here
I accept
For B.Sc. (Hons.) Liberal Studies and Media
Course Type
Please Select Condition
Focus on research:
The B.Sc. Hons. program at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media offers a unique opportunity for students to develop a strong foundation in research and interdisciplinary learning that can open up a range of career opportunities.
The faculty members at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media are experienced researchers and experts in their respective fields. They can provide students with guidance and mentorship in their research projects and help them develop the necessary skills to become successful researchers.
The B.Sc. Hons. program by UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media is an undergraduate program that offers students a comprehensive understanding of economics, finance, psychology and behaviour. The program curriculum is designed to provide students with a broad understanding of various fields such as economics, finance, psychology and behaviour. Through this program, students can develop analytical and critical thinking skills that can help them pursue a career in fields such as politics, law, journalism, or academia.
Please enter email address
B. Non-Mathematics background students will undergo the Remedial Mathematics module in Semester 1.
The curriculum is designed to meet the needs of the industry and is updated regularly to keep up with the latest trends and developments. This can provide students with the knowledge and skills required to succeed in their careers.
*
Specialisations
Call Me
However, it's important to note that salary packages may vary widely based on the individual's performance, skills, and experience, and the job market conditions.
* For further details, refer to T&C
Up to 40% Scholarship for selected students
Close
terms & conditions
Economics with Data Science
Please enter first name
Psychology and Behaviour
Mobile Number
Graduates have diverse career opportunities, including non-academic sectors such as journalism, mass communication, film and television production, policy analysis, and more.
A. Maths/ Economics/ Political Science in class 12th will be preferred.
Select Course
The program emphasizes research skills development and provides students with hands-on experience in research through internships, projects, and collaboration with faculty. This can help students build critical thinking skills, analytical skills, and problem-solving skills.
Please Select Course Type
B.Sc. (Hons.)
What is the average salary after the B.Sc. Hons. Program?
Our B.Sc. degree program prepares students for higher education in national and global universities, and our faculty mentors students applying for MA and Ph.D. programs in top 250 global universities.
FAQs
What is the eligibility criteria for B.Sc. Program?
We offer the following full-time 3+1 years undergraduate program under B.Sc. (Hons.).
The B.Sc. Hons. program at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media offers a unique interdisciplinary curriculum that combines scientific research with liberal arts education. Here are some reasons why studying this program at UPES can be beneficial:
Selection Criteria
Academics
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Our innovative teaching methods prioritize praxis and solution-based learning, providing students with skills valuable in private sector, industry, policy-based government and non-governmental think tanks.
Career opportunities:
Enquiry Form
Load More
Please enter mobile number
-- None --
Last Date to Apply: February 28, 2025
B.Sc. (Hons.) - Course Overview
--None--
The School of Liberal Studies and Media is proud to offer an exceptional and highly distinguished B.Sc. Hons. program in Economics with Data Science, Economics and Finance, and Psychology and Behaviour. With an unparalleled reputation, this flagship program provides students with an unrivalled foundation in Economics, Data Science, Finance, Psychology and Behaviour.
What is B.Sc. Program?
Program Fee Structure
Personal Interview/ CUET
After completing B.Sc. Hons. program, graduates can pursue careers in various fields such as economics, finance, data science, psychology and behaviour. Graduates can work as political analysts, journalists, research assistants, public policy specialists, lobbyists, and political consultants. They can also pursue careers in academia, teaching at schools, colleges, or universities. The program can provide students with critical thinking skills and analytical skills, which are essential for success in these fields.
Graduates of the B.Sc. Hons. program at UPES can pursue careers in various fields such as research and development, academia, scientific writing, and policy-making. The program can also provide a strong foundation for further studies in fields such as medicine, law, and business.
for a detailed Fee Structure.
B.Sc. Hons. offered by the School of Liberal Studies and Media has three different specialisations:
Please enter last name
The program's curriculum is designed to combine different fields of study, such as science, technology, mathematics, and humanities, to provide a holistic research approach. This interdisciplinary approach can help students develop a broader perspective and a more nuanced understanding of complex issues.
Career Opportunities
Why study B.Sc. at UPES School of Liberal Studies and Media?
to learn about additional fee payments.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Our faculty liaises with UPES’ career services to mentor students interested in securing industry-specific roles, beyond academia.
Home
Industry-relevant curriculum:
Email Address
Economics and Finance
Graduates can expect to earn an average starting salary of around INR 2.5 to 4.5 lakhs per annum in entry-level positions such as research assistant, public relations executive, journalist, or political analyst. With experience and specialization, graduates can earn higher salaries in fields such as public policy, consulting, or law.
Experienced faculty:
Eligibility Criteria
Merit Scholarships | Early Acceptance Scholarships*
Please select Course
.
For Hostel Fee Information,
50% marks in class 10th & 12th (Any Stream).
Interdisciplinary curriculum:
What are the career opportunities after doing B.Sc. Hons. Program?
Click here
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
B.Sc. Hons. offered by the School of Liberal Studies and Media  has three different specialisations:
Last Name
What are the different specializations I can opt for in B.Sc. Program?