UPES School of Advanced Engineering offers an M.Sc. program designed to provide students with a strong foundation in various fields of science, including applied sciences and applied geology. Students may also have the opportunity to participate in internships or apprenticeships, which can provide valuable hands-on experience and exposure to the industry.
M.Sc. graduates can choose to become teachers, professors, or lecturers in universities and colleges. They can also contribute to research and development in academia by joining research teams or pursuing a Ph.D.
Organic Chemistry / Polymer Science/ Instrumental Chemical Analysis
M.Sc. - Course Overview
The eligibility criteria for the M.Sc. program is 50% in 10th & 12th (PCM/B) and 50% in graduation in the relevant subject.
Research and Development:
Click Here
Academia:
Does UPES provide scholarships for M.Sc. Program?
Chemistry
UPES’ annual placement drive gives students a chance to interact with recruiters from leading startups and MNCs from around the world. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
Academic planning and monitoring
Government Services:
Why study M.Sc. at UPES School of Advanced Engineering?
M.Sc. graduates can work in IT and data science fields such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data analytics. They can work in technology companies or startups, developing new products and technologies.
Along with the core subject, students have the option to choose from subject-focused specializations:
Applied Geology
Completing an M.Sc. program opens up several career opportunities for graduates. The specific opportunities available depend on the field of study and the individual's interests and skillset. Some popular career paths for M.Sc. graduates include:
UPES has a record of 90%+ placement and ensures good opportunities for students as it attracts many big corporate houses. The university organizes in-campus PEP (Personality Enhancement program) for students to develop a positive outlook and gain several skills necessary for their time employability at the university. The university will also assist the students in grabbing the best internship opportunities. The students will also be offered pre-placement boot camp for the students for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) training for their upcoming placements.
Specialisations
Prototype development
M.Sc. graduates in healthcare fields like microbiology, biotechnology, and pharmacology can work in hospitals, clinics, and pharmaceutical companies. They can develop new treatments and therapies, research, and manage clinical trials.
Industry-Relevant Curriculum:
Professional Software Training (PST) and Certification
The School of Advanced Engineering at UPES offers a range of specialized M.Sc. courses in various fields, including Applied Geology, Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics. The courses are designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the subject matter and prepare them for careers in their respective fields.
* For further details, refer to T&C
The M.Sc. in Applied Sciences allows students to specialise in a particular field of science, such as physics, chemistry, or mathematics. The course is intended for those who wish to deepen their knowledge and skills in a specific area of science and pursue a career in research or academia.
Close
M.Sc. (Engineering)
Placements
Studying M.Sc. at the UPES School of Advanced Engineering provides students with a high-quality education, practical experience, and excellent employment opportunities. There are several reasons one may consider studying M.Sc. at the reputed UPES School of Advanced Engineering:
Physics
Applied Sciences (M.Sc. Chemistry/M.Sc. Physics/M.Sc. Mathematics.)
Software Developer
NPTEL lectures
School of Advanced Engineering
State-of-the-Art Infrastructure:
Industry-led courses
The School of Advanced Engineering offers an M.Sc. in Applied Sciences and an M.Sc. in Applied Geology. The duration of the program is 2 years. Each program offers a range of specialisations, allowing students to tailor their education to their interests and career goals. M.Sc. allows students to specialise in a particular field of science and gain in-depth knowledge and skills required for their careers. The course includes theoretical classes, practical sessions, and research work. Graduates of this program are equipped with the advanced knowledge and skills required to pursue higher education or a career in their chosen field.
FAQs
Real-world/Project-based assignments
The program includes theoretical and practical components, with students being required to complete various projects, assignments, and laboratory work. The curricula for the program have been framed in consultation with industry, academia, alumni, and parents to make the students industry-ready upon graduation. Graduates of our programs are well-prepared to enter the workforce or pursue advanced studies in their field.
Astrophysicist
The curriculum diverges based on the chosen core subject and the field of specialisation. Visit the individual pages to learn more.
Applied Sciences
What is M.Sc. Program?
Selection Criteria
Pure Mathematics/ Applied Mathematics
Design and review of individual course plans at the beginning of session
M.Sc. graduates in India have a wide range of career opportunities available to them. The career opportunities depend on the individual's field of study, experience, and skill set. However, M.Sc. graduates are in high demand in various fields and can make significantly contribute to their chosen industries. There are numerous job roles that you can take:
Astronomy & Astrophysics/ Material Science & Nano Technology
ICT-enabled classroom (sound system, mic, and projector)
Academics
Mathematics
M.Sc. Chemistry
Healthcare:
Load More
Personal Interview
Astronomers
Semester Exchange Program
50% in 10th & 12th (PCM/B) and 50% in graduation in the relevant subject.
Placement Opportunities:
Encouraging advanced learner
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
What is the eligibility criteria for a M.Sc. program?
Excellent Faculty:
What are the career opportunities after doing M.Sc. Program?
M.Sc. Mathematics
The average salary for M.Sc. graduates depends on various factors, including the field of study, the industry, the job position, and the location. Generally, M.Sc. graduates are considered to be highly skilled professionals with advanced knowledge in their respective fields, which can translate into higher salaries. The average salary ranges from Rs. 4 LPA to Rs. 12 LPA, however, this can vary widely depending on the specific field of study and the industry.
The School of Advanced Engineering at UPES has state-of-the-art infrastructure, including well-equipped laboratories, research facilities, and a modern library. The infrastructure provides students with access to the latest tools and equipment required for their research and projects.
Program Fee Structure
What is the average salary after a M.Sc. Program?
Specialised Courses:
What are the different specializations I can opt for in M.Sc. Program?
M.Sc. graduates can work in various government organisations like the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), and other government agencies.
for a detailed Fee Structure.
IT and Data Science:
Quality laboratory experience
UPES has a dedicated placement cell that assists students in finding employment opportunities after completing their M.Sc. The placement cell has strong ties with the industry and works closely with companies to identify student job opportunities.
Research Scientist
Career Opportunities
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
We at the department believe in experiential teaching and learning and strive to imbibe problem-solving skills and critical thinking in students. The following practices are in place to improve the quality of teaching-learning and student experience.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
The School of Advanced Engineering at UPES has highly experienced and qualified faculty members who deeply understand their respective fields. The faculty members are actively involved in research and bring their expertise and knowledge into the classroom to provide students with a well-rounded education.
Slow learners support
M.Sc. graduates can pursue a career in research and development in industries such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, and chemical industries. They can work in research laboratories, government research organisations, and private research and development companies.
Home
Academic Research Editor
Collection of feedback and reviews from our former students, providing valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Participation in conferences/seminars/workshops (national/international)
Science Teachers
Research Analyst
Scope and Highlights
M.Sc. stands for Master of Science and is a postgraduate academic degree typically requiring 2 years of full-time study. The program is designed to provide students with advanced knowledge and practical skills in a specific field of science. M.Sc. programs are offered in various fields, such as Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, and many more.
Eligibility Criteria
Guest lectures from industry experts
.
For Hostel Fee Information,
Studying M.Sc. at UPES School of Advanced Engineering provides students with a comprehensive education, industry exposure, and practical training, making them well-equipped. The M.Sc. program at UPES provides students with an advanced education, practical experience, and excellent employment opportunities. The programs are highly specialised and designed to meet the needs of the industry.
FDP/Industry Attachment Program for Faculty members (Abhigyat)
These are just a few examples of the positions that post-graduates can apply for after completing a M.Sc. degree. The specific positions available will depend on the individual graduate's interests, skills, and experience.
M.Sc. graduates in environmental science can work in government organisations, NGOs, or private companies, contributing to environmental protection, conservation, and sustainability.
The curriculum of M.Sc. courses at UPES is designed in collaboration with industry experts to ensure that the students receive an education relevant to the industry's needs. The curriculum includes practical sessions, project work, and internships, which provide students with hands-on experience and help them develop practical skills.
Innovative Teaching and Learning
Click here
Use of virtual labs
Some of the highlights of M.Sc. programs include a strong foundation in the subject area, hands-on experience through laboratory work and projects, exposure to research, and opportunities to explore various career paths. The program also provides opportunities for personal and professional development through extracurricular activities, internships, and industry collaborations.
M.Sc. Physics
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Participation in competitive events (in-house/national/international)
Student Testimonials
Scientists
Course Completion Report (CCR)
Environmental Science: