To provide state-of-the-art, global quality infrastructure, progressive pedagogy and an environment conducive to immersive learning, and competent faculty in the areas of Health, Safety, Fire, Environment and Civil Engineering.
Apply Now
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments
Learn More
Consultative Committees and Course Upgradation
To foster linkages with all stakeholders for continuous improvement in academics and allied areas.
Continuous Evaluation
The students gain invaluable industry exposure by being involved in live and sponsored projects funded by the government and through live consultancy projects. The department also provides students with international exposure through a meticulous syllabus that includes international and national student chapters, such as the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), the American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP), and the Fire & Security Association of India (FSAI). The department prepares and supports students in pursuit of certifications in professional courses like NEBOSH, IOSH, and ISO 45001 (Lead Auditor).
Department of
Concrete Technology Lab
Collaboration and Valuable Output
Faculty
View All
Transportation Engineering Lab
Individual and Teamwork:
The Department of Health, Safety, & Environment (HSE) and Civil Engineering have evolved into a key sector of importance for budding engineers. It offers courses at undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate levels. Leading the department is a specialised twenty-member faculty team with national and international experience in academics and industry. Not just faculty, the department boasts of state-of-the-art infrastructure, laboratories, software, and facilities.
Dr. Bikarama Prasad Yadav
Value Added Courses
Mission
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Placement Assistance
Research and Practice Informed Learning
Specialisations
Programs
Environmental Engineering
Surveying Lab
Dr. Chandrashekhar Bhagat
Postgraduate
Project management and finance:
About the Department
Professor
Advanced Fluid Mechanics Lab
Close
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, responsibilities, and norms of the engineering practice.
To train engineering graduates in professional conduct – ethical in their professional and personal lives.
M.Tech.
NABL-approved Labs, Fire training ground, including a smokehouse, confined space rescue model and Helicopter Rescue model, aromatic and medicinal plant facilities, advanced surveying instruments, hydraulic tilting flume, NEBOSH accredited centre.
Communication:
School of Advanced Engineering
Health and Safety Engineering Lab
Construction Technology and Management
Program Outcome
Industrial Hygiene Lab
Durga Prasad Panday
National and International Events
State of the Art Laboratories
Undergraduate
Problem analysis:
Transportation Engineering
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Dharmendra Kumar Gupta
Sustainability Engineering
Fire Safety Engineering Lab
Design/development of solutions:
Conduct investigations of complex problems:
CAD Lab
Academics
Choice-Based Credit System and Program Electives
Ethics:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Minors - AI&ML, IoT, Blockchain, Data science, Bio-mimetics, Sustainability engineering, Climate change, Disaster management, Reclaim engineering, Astronomy & Astrophysics, Space Engineering, Statistics & probability, Economics.
Geotechnical Engineering Lab
Through an emphasis on building entrepreneurship skills, and through interdisciplinary collaboration, the department seeks to further the professional ethics of its students, while building core competencies in civil and safety engineering and research.
Engineer and society:
Modern tool usage:
Department of Sustainability Engineering
Civil Engineering
Facilities
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling, to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
To create a culture wherein faculty and students are committed to keeping environment and social concerns and commitments in mind whilst applying their problem-solving skills.
Use research-based knowledge and research methods, including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety and cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Life-long learning:
Understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Health, Safety and Environment
Associate professor
Construction Management
Department Details
Dr. Abhishek Nandan
Home
Fire and Safety Engineering
Labs
To be recognized for training students into becoming competent professionals in the areas of Health, Safety, Fire, Environment, and Civil Engineering (HSFEC) and thereby apply their skills to conduct high-quality research in the HSFEC sector.
Apart from this, the department is focussed on providing:
Overview
Eligibility Criteria
To inculcate the ability to keep societal implications in mind while dealing with professional issues.
Structural Analysis
Read More
National and International Forums and Chapters (ASSP, ASCE, FSAI)
Engineering knowledge:
Assistant Professor
Environment and sustainability:
Vision
Minors - AI&ML, IoT, Blockchain, Data Science, Bio-mimetics, Sustainability engineering, Climate change, Disaster Management, Reclaim engineering, Astronomy & Astrophysics, Space Engineering, Statistics & probability, Economics.
Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
B.Tech
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using the first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.