Living Conversation
Operating Systems
Semester 4
Cyber Security Experts
16
Elements of AIML Lab
L
Ranked 46th by NIRF in the Engineering category in 2024.
Specialisation
Minors
5
Critical Thinking and Writing
Start your startup
Click Here
Semester 1
The BCA course can also be appropriate for students wishing to continue their technical education with postgraduate degrees like Master of Computer Applications (MCA) or Master of Business (MBA) in different technological disciplines such as computer science, IT or database administration. The BCA program at UPES can also be the right start for a successful career in Artificial Intelligence or Analytical Sciences.
Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change - II
Basic Mathematics I
Data Structures and algorithms Lab
What is BCA?
Python programming Lab
Object Oriented Programming
Credit
PE-1 Lab
Databases
Banking Sector
The BCA course qualification at UPES can brighten the career prospects for its graduates in several IT and Computer Science disciplines from Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, or Financial Technology or Fintech. In fact, from the previous BCA batches of UPES, more than 630 students were placed with over 190 national and international recruiters with a 100% placement rate.
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics
Mobile Application Development Lab
Does UPES provide scholarships for the BCA Program?
Environmental Sustainability
to know more.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
2
Semester 5
What is the eligibility criteria for BCA courses?
Project-3
Programming in C Lab
PE-1
8
Summer Internship
PE-3
Problem Solving
23
Semester 3
Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) is an undergraduate degree that focusing on computer science and applications. The course duration is typically 3 years, and the curriculum is designed to provide students with a strong foundation in computer science, programming, and software development. BCA students from UPES can venture into domains such as application architecture, app development, database designing, banking consultancy and database architecture.
Project-1
A Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) degree with a specialisation in Artificial Intelligence (AI) teaches students the concepts and techniques required to design and develop intelligent systems that can perform tasks without human intervention. This specialisation provides students with a comprehensive understanding of various AI technologies, including machine learning, natural language processing, and computer vision. Graduates of this program can pursue careers in diverse fields such as finance, healthcare, and e-commerce, where AI is rapidly becoming an essential tool.
21
, accredited by the University Grants Commission of India.
At UPES, we invest in the continuous learning of our students, moulding them into industry experts and future leaders. Our ‘School for Life’ program and industry-specific coursework are designed to support the growth of our students.
* For further details, refer to T&C
Data Structures and algorithms
Close
Bachelor of Computer Application
Business Analyst
Placements
Linux Lab
PE-4 Lab
UPES offers distinct BCA specialisations in Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security, that allows students to pursue successful careers in the global technological and Fintech domain.
4
Semester 6
20
What is the average salary after the BCA course?
PE-2 Lab
P
UPES School of Computer Science
Studying BCA is best for?
After BCA, you will become eligible for entry level jobs or go for further studies such as MCA or MBA. The BCA courses at UPES have customised curricula that can help students switch career domains to other technological disciplines if they wish to do so.
Semester 2
Software Developer
The BCA program is suitable for students with an interest in Computer Science who wish to pursue a career in the technological industry. All BCA specialisations at UPES are perfect for demonstrating their scientific curiosity, analytical thinking, and innovative streak.
DevOps
Data Science
School Of Computer Science
The BCA course qualification at UPES can brighten the career prospects for its graduates in many IT and Computer Science disciplines, from Robotics, Artificial Intelligence or Financial Technology to Fintech. In fact, from the previous BCA batches of UPES, more than 630 students were placed with over 190 national and international recruiters with a 100% placement rate.
and Climate Change - I
Databases Lab
PE-3 Lab
Advanced Web Technologies Lab
FAQs
Exploratory-2
E-commerce Executive
Selection Criteria
T
Software Engineering
3
Here is why you should enrol in the BCA program at UPES:
Exploratory-5
Credit transfer program to the University of Queensland, Australia, for career progression.
Academics
Project-2
Programming in C
1
Advanced Databases Lab
Exploratory-1
Advanced Databases
Load More
50% marks in class X and XII with Mathematics / Computer Science / Information Technology as one of the major Subject in Class XII
Advanced Web Technologies
BCA students from UPES can venture into domains such as application architecture, app development, database designing, banking consultancy and database architecture. Some interesting career roles include software consultants, database administrators, computer systems analysts, quality assurance managers and network engineers.
The average salary after the BCA course can start from ₹5-7 LPA, and within 2-4 years students can earn as much as INR 4-10 LPA in top IT companies. However, this varies on a year-on-year basis.
Software Engineer
Industry 4.0
Mobile Application Development
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
Technical Analyst
Cyber Security
The Cyber Security program teaches students the skills required to protect computer systems, networks, and sensitive information from cyber threats. This specialisation gives students with a deep understanding of various cyber security technologies and techniques, including cryptography, network security, and ethical hacking. Graduates of this program can pursue careers in fields such as government, finance, healthcare, and e-commerce, where cyber security is a critical concern.
Our students have received attractive packages worth up to INR 50 lakh per annum through industry placements. Moreover, we offer lifetime placement assistance and guidance to all our students.
,
PE-5
BCA courses are offered under the
Blockchain Professional and more.
Why Study BCA at UPES School of Computer Science?
Semester abroad program at the University of California, Berkeley.
Program Fee Structure
Exploratory-3
Project-4
Seminar
PE-4
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Applied Statistics and Probability
Industry-leading placement packages of up to ₹50 LPA in 2022.
Data Scientist
Semester 8
Basic Mathematics II
Elements of AIML
Python programming
Data communication and Networks
Career Opportunities
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
50% marks in class X and XII with Mathematics / Computer Science / Information Technology as one of the major subjects in Class XII.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
What courses can I pursue after completing BCA?
Educator
Home
The BCA course will equip you with skills that can be applied in various jobs. With the increasing demand for technology professionals in various industries, choosing BCA can offer promising career opportunities and high earning potential. Students can further choose to pursue a MCA or choose to pursue a career. Here are a few profiles you can apply for immediately after completing the course:
Web Technologies Lab
Web Technologies
Students at UPES get unparalleled industry experience through our alliances with organisations like IBM, Microsoft, Xebia, and more. Many career progression opportunities are available to students at UPES, with a chance to complete the degree at premium global institutions like the University of Queensland, Australia.
PE-5 Lab
UPES' annual placement drive allows students to interact with recruiters from leading start-ups and MNCs worldwide. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
Personal Interview / CUET
TOTAL
BCA - Course Overview
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Lifetime placement assistance.
Collecting feedback and reviews from our former students provides valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Exploratory-4
Eligibility Criteria
Semester 7
Digital Marketer
Leadership and Teamwork
.
Data Science teaches students the skills to design, develop, and implement IoT applications and systems. This specialisation gives students an in-depth understanding of IoT technologies, platforms, and protocols, enabling them to develop innovative solutions for real-world problems. Graduates of this program can pursue careers in various fields, including smart cities, healthcare, logistics, and industrial automation.
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission to the course?
For Hostel Fee Information,
100% placements at multi-national companies like Gojek, Infosys, Airtel, and more.
Design Thinking
PE-2
Click here
What are the career opportunities after doing BCA?
Object Oriented Programming Lab
10
What are the different specialisations I can opt for in BCA?
Student Testimonials
Course
Bachelor of Computer Application is a 3-year program offered under the School of Computer Science.
0
Know More