What are the career opportunities after doing BA LL.B. (Hons.) program?
Hons 4-Customs and Latest Developments
Does UPES provide scholarships for BA LL.B. (Hons.) program?
Minor II (Paper 2) Legal History
Hons 1-Private International Trade Law
Major (Paper 3) Political Science-III
Semester 4
SFL-Living Conversation
Admissions through ULSAT (UPES Legal Studies Aptitude Test)
L
Aviation, Air and Space Law
Major (Paper 6) Public Policy
Intellectual Property Rights
Up to 20% of seats shall be filled through the Board Merit/CLAT AIR Category.
Specialisation
Investment and Trade Law
Minors
Hons 3-Insolvency and Bankruptcy Law
Hons 3-Wage Laws and Constitutional Protection.
Critical Thinking and Writing
Hons 4-Trade Secrets and Sui Generis IPR
Labour Law I
Hons 5-Industrial Design Law
Hons 1-Copyright Law and Practice
Banking and Negotiable Instruments Law
Click Here
Semester 1
Board Merit
Environmental Studies & Law
Company Law I
Public International Law
Semester 9
With a placement record of 80%, we assure exceptional career opportunities for our students. School of Law, UPES, allures renowned law firms/ corporate houses, ensuring a promising future in law.
As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2024, the Ministry of Education, India, School of Law, UPES has been ranked 29 in Law and among the Top 10 Private Law colleges in India by India Today.
School of Law
Scholarships for postgraduate programs
Introduction to Psychology and Sociology
Hons 3 specialization
Hons 4-Comparative Federalism
We have a vision to provide quality legal education in this new age of digital transformation. The institute is committed to not only exploring but also implementing an outcome-based education. We focus on applying the new-age learning technologies to competency-based, adaptive and collaborative education. This will help us create a learning space which meets the unique needs of every student.
Family Law II
to know more.
Hons 1-International Environmental Law
2
Hons 4-Climate Change and Energy Transition- National and International Legal Framework
Law Optional-Interpretation of Statutes
Semester 5
Hons 2-Energy Law and Policy Governance in International Scenario
Hons 5-Socio -Economic Offences
Taxation Law
Foreign Language ( Any one)
SFL
Hons 5-International Commercial Arbitration
Banking & Insolvency Law
Drafting, Pleading and Conveyance
Semester 10
Hons 1- Criminology
Hons 2-Comparative Social security and Indian Constitution
Hons 6-Election Law
Comparative Competition Law and Policy
Major (Paper 5) Politics of India Since Independence
Hons 4-Foreign Investment Law
Programe Elective-2(Any one)
23
Semester 3
Hons 6-Nuclear Energy Laws and Sustainable Development
Join the School of Law, UPES, today and embark on a transformative journey that propels you toward legal excellence. Immerse yourself in a supportive community, state-of-the-art facilities, and limitless opportunities to excel in the legal profession.
Minor I (Paper 3) Business Economics II Macro
* For further details, refer to T&C
Energy & Environment Law
Corporate Law
Close
Hons 1-Legal Framework- Metaverse,  Block Chain
Insurance Law
The program offers students the opportunity to specialise in ten diverse subjects, each designed to equip them with the skills and knowledge required to succeed in specific fields of law. The rigorous and comprehensive program provides students with a deep understanding of the law and its role in shaping society. Faculty members are highly qualified and committed to providing students with a stimulating learning environment, allowing them to acquire the necessary skills to excel in their chosen field.
Law of Contract I
Placements
Minor II (Paper 3) World History
Hons 3-Securities Market Regulation
Alternative Dispute Resolution
4
Law of Crimes II: CrPC
Hons 3-Tax Practice and Filing of Returns
Hons 6-Law on Insurance
At the School of Law, UPES, we believe in nurturing well-rounded individuals, and to boost further chances of securing a dream job, we provide a comprehensive pre-placement boot camp. This specialised training program prepares for Group Discussions (GD) and Personal Interviews (PI), ensuring that students shine during placement. Our expert faculty and industry professionals will equip students with the necessary skills and techniques to ace any interview. We are committed to shaping students into confident and accomplished professionals.
Semester 6
Credits
P
Hons 3-Sustainable Energy and Environment Protection
The School of Law
The programs offered by the university have a range of features that set it apart from other law programs. The university has received numerous accolades, including a QS 5-star rating for Employability, University of the Year (North India) awarded by ASSOCHAM, and an Accredited Grade 'A' by NAAC.
Semester 2
Why study BA LL.B. (Hons.) at UPES School of Law?
Hons 1-Tax Administration and Dispute Resolution
Hons 7 ( PBL)
Hons 4 specialization
Professional Ethics and Professional Accounting System
Law of Evidence
22
Hons 4-Cyber laws & Cyber Security
Hons 5-Vulnerable employment and law
Hons 3-International Investment Law
Hons 6 specialization
Hons 2-Public International Trade Law
18
BA LL.B (Hons.) is a professional integrated degree that opens up a wide range of career opportunities for graduates. After completing the program, students can choose to work as lawyers in various fields, such as Corporate Law, Criminal Law, Taxation Law, Intellectual Property Law, Or Environmental Law. Graduates can also work in law firms, government agencies, or corporate legal departments. Moreover, the program prepares students to pursue higher education and research in law, leading to advanced degrees such as LL.M. or Ph.D.
Overall, the BA LL.B. (Hons.) program equips graduates with the necessary skills and knowledge to succeed in the legal profession and pursue various career opportunities.
FAQs
Hons 3-Financial and Systemic Fraud
Hons 5-International Banking & Finance
Hons 2-Drone Laws, AI & Intelligence Robotics Law
Major (Paper 1) Political Science-I
Research collaborations
Selection Criteria
Indian Foreign Policy in a Globalized world
T
Hons 2-Transformative Constitutionalism
Faculty and student exchange
3
Hons 5-Data Privacy & Law relating to OTT and Social Media
Health Laws
Fundamentals of Moot Courts
Academics
Hons 6-International Taxation
Disruptive Technologies Law
Hons 6-Forensic Science and Law
1
Overall, the BA LL.B. (Hons.) program offers students a unique opportunity to specialise in their area of interest, equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to succeed in the legal profession.
Hons 1-Corporate Governance
Hons 1- Making of the Indian Constitution
Load More
Hons 6-Connected & Autonomous Vehicles, and Smart Cities
Hons 5 specialization
Hons 5-Competition Law
Hons 3-Comparative Constitutionalism
Hons 6-Insolvency and Bankruptcy Law
Examination Pathway:
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
French
Criminal Law
Hons 1-Banking Laws & Practices
Hons 2-Corporate Restructuring
Law Optional-Information Technology Law
Online modules
Major (Paper 2) Political Science-II
Law Optional-Company Law II
Hons 1-Labour welfare and Constitutional Protections
B.A. LL.B. (Hons.) - Course Overview
CLAT Merit
Collaborative seminars, moot courts, conferences, and student competitions
German
Program Fee Structure
Code of Civil Procedure & Limitation Act
Industrial Relations and Constitution Law
Non-Examination Pathway:
Hons 4-International Banking & Finance
We also have MoUs with renowned institutions such as Maurer School of Law and Nottingham Trent University to provide progression opportunities for higher education. The School of Law, UPES has taken another step towards bridging the gap between industry and academia. In line with the guidelines released by the University Grants Commission, we have appointed top legal practitioners as Professors of Practice to inculcate practical skills to students through their vast industry experience. Finally, the program offers unmatched global opportunities, ensuring students are well-prepared for the international legal market.
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Law Optional-Intellectual Property Law
Hons 5-Comparative Legislative Relations
Hons 1 specialization
Semester 8
Labour Law II
Hons 4-Comparative Labour Constitutionalism
Career Opportunities
Hons 5-Legal Framework of Indian Oil and Gas Sector
Faculty and student exchange programs
Environment Sustainability and Climate Change (Theory)
Hons 2-Law of Trademarks
Law relating to Human Rights
The BA LL.B. (Hons.) program is a five-year professional integrated degree that offers a double advantage to students aspiring to join the legal profession. It combines the study of the arts with a profound understanding of the law, covering subjects such as Economics, Sociology, History, Political Science, Criminal Law, Civil Law, Administrative Law, Constitutional Law, and Labour Law. Highly qualified faculty members teach the program, and students can choose from 10 specializations in the third year of the program. The program provides students with a well-rounded perspective, enabling them to analyse the complex legal issues within the context of society and politics, making it an ideal choice for those seeking a comprehensive and rigorous education.
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Hons 8  (PBL)
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Hons 3-Patent Law and Practice
Hons 5-Corporate Tax and Planning
14
Home
What is the average salary after the BA LL.B. (Hons.) program?
Counselling Skills
Administrative Law
Mediation (with Conciliation)
Constitutional Law I
Hons 6-Commercialisation of IPR
Subject
Hons 3-Fintech & E-Commerce
TOTAL
Collaborative seminars, moot courts, conferences and student competitions.
The average salary for BA LL.B. (Hons.) graduates in India depend on various factors such as the industry, job role, location, and experience. In general, fresh graduates can expect an average starting salary of around ₹ 5 lakhs per annum. However, as graduates gain experience and expertise in their field, they can expect to earn higher salaries ranging from INR Rs. 6-12 lakhs per annum or more. Senior lawyers and legal consultants with significant experience and a strong reputation in the industry can earn much higher salaries, ranging from INR Rs. 20-50 lakhs or more per annum. Ultimately, the salary after completing the BA LL.B. (Hons.) programs in India vary depending on individual skills, experience, and job roles.
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Scope and Highlights
Collecting feedback and reviews from our former students provides valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects.
Research collaboration
Minor II (Paper 1) History
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Constitution Law
Hons 2-Goods and Service Tax
Legal Methods and Legal Reasoning
.
Minor I (Paper 1) Law and Economics
Minimum 50% marks in class X and XII
Jurisprudence
For Hostel Fee Information,
Social Internship
Hons 6-Law of IPR in International Trade
Programe Elective-1(Any one)
For any law graduate, Internships are crucial stepping-stones toward a thriving legal career. At the School of Law, UPES, we go the extra mile to connect our students with the best internship opportunities available. This enables them to gain practical exposure, hone their skills, and establish valued alliances in their interned organisations.
Hons 4-Debt Recovery Laws
Law of Tort and Consumer Protection Laws
Minor I (Paper 2) Business Economics I Micro
Summer school program
Hons 6-Feminist industrial Jurisprudence
Law of Defense Studies
Click here
BA LL.B. (Hons.)
Private International Law
Hons 2 specialization
Environment Sustainability and Climate Change ( Living Lab)
Family Law I
In the coming years, we aim to focus on digital learning through a balanced combination of technology, digital content, live instruction and experiential learning. Our partnerships with global institutions would provide our students with much-needed 'international exposure at home'. We have the privilege of becoming the first Indian university to partner with the UK-based University of Law. School of Law, UPES and UK-based The University of Law (ULaw), one of the most reputed universities for legal studies globally, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that aims to provide opportunities to students such as –
Hons 2-Financial Market Regulation
Graduates can pursue various career opportunities after completing the BA LL.B. (Hons.) program in India. They can practise law in various fields, such as corporate law, criminal law, taxation law, intellectual property law, or environmental law, either as advocates or legal consultants. Graduates can also work as legal advisors or consultants in law firms, government agencies, or corporate legal departments. Additionally, they can pursue a career in the judiciary by appearing for the Indian Judicial Services examination. Furthermore, graduates can pursue higher education and research in law, leading to advanced degrees such as LL.M. or Ph.D., or choose to become law professors in universities or law schools. Overall, the BA LL.B. (Hons.) program in India provides graduates with diverse career opportunities in the legal profession.
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Student Testimonials
Moot Court Exercise and Internship
is a constituent college of UPES. It offers highly integrated undergraduate programs designed to develop legal and techno-legal professionals specialising in Corporate Law, Energy Law, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), and Cyber Law. All programs offered by the UPES School of Law are approved by the Bar Council of India. The integrated programs provided by School of Law are the first of their kind in South Asia. UPES is the only university in India that has partnered with The University of Law (ULaw), a globally reputed university for legal studies based in the UK. This partnership has led to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that provides numerous opportunities for students, including:
0
Law of Crimes I: IPC
Transfer of Property and Easement Law
Know More
Hons 4-International Criminal Law