Operating Systems
Digital Data Recovery and Analysis
Semester 4
100% Placement*
3+1
Business Analytics and Optimisation
The salary of an MCA graduate in India is around 7.96 lakh per annum in top IT companies. However, this varies year or year basis.
What is the eligibility criteria for MCA courses?
Cyber Forensic Procedures and Analysis
Information Security Analyst
Click Here
Semester 1
Master of Computer Application
Domain Project
Unmatched Global Opportunities
Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics
UPES' annual placement drive allows students to interact with recruiters from leading startups and MNCs worldwide. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
Software Engineering and Project Management
If a student aspires to study abroad, an MCA from UPES can facilitate the same through its global immersion program. Students can get the opportunity to study for 4 weeks in Berlin or Vancouver. Students can also get up to 50% scholarship on selected postgraduate courses at partner institutes in Europe, the UK, Canada, and the USA.
Introduction to Cyber–Crime Investigation
All Semester
Total
Master of Computer Applications (MCA) is a postgraduate degree in computer science that provides advanced knowledge and skills in software development, programming languages, algorithms, data structures, computer networks, databases, and software engineering. The program aims to equip students with the expertise to design, develop, and manage software systems and applications in various domains such as finance, healthcare, e-commerce, and education.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
2
What are the career opportunities after doing MCA?
Project Manager
Forensic Consultant
MCA is best suited for individuals with a background in computer science or a related field interested in pursuing a career in software development, programming, or information technology. The MCA program at UPES is perfect for those who wish to pursue technical careers in the banking or computer science industry.
MBA
Database Administrator
Specialisations
What is MCA?
The UPES School of Computer Science offers a range of specialised programs under the MCA program. These include:
Security Software Developer
PRACTICAL
23
Semester 3
MCA - Course Overview
Students at UPES get unparalleled industry experience through our alliance with organisations like Sony, Tata Consultancy Services, Tech Mahindra, Adani Group, Aveva, Bostin Analytics, Capgemini, Emami, Global Data, GSPC, HCL, Hyundai, Indian Navy, ITC Infotech, KPIT, Susten by Mahindra, Mapmyindia, Reliance, Royal Enfield, SAP, Schneider Electric, Shell, Sify, Tata Technologies, Wellspun, Wipro, Microsoft, JLL, L&T Construction, Amazon, Birla Soft, Vedanta, Xebia, NIIT Technologies, and many more. Many career progression opportunities are available to students at UPES, with a chance to complete the degree at premium institutes like the University of Queensland, Australia.
Best For
Object-Oriented Analysis and Design Using UML Lab
Does UPES provide scholarships for the MCA Program?
* For further details, refer to T&C
Data Base Management Systems
Domain Elective-6
Close
The MCA program is designed to provide students with a solid foundation in computer science theory and practical skills and prepare them for careers in various technology fields such as software development, database administration, system analysis, and more. Graduates of this program can pursue careers as software engineers, software developers, system analysts, software architects, and project managers in various industries.
Agent based Intelligent Systems
Introduction to Cyber Security
Domain Elective-5
Java Programming *1
50% in 10th and 12th and 50 % in graduation in the relevant subject in addition to a Personal Interview to confirm selection.
Placements
These MCA specialisations can help students switch career domains to other disciplines if they wish to do so in the future. With UPES receiving the QS I-Gauge E-Lead Certification for online learning, students can rest assured about the quality of education, regardless of the delivery model. The specialisations are Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Data Science, and Cloud Computing and Cyber Security.
Semester-III
4
Our students have received attractive packages worth up to Rs. 50 lakh per annum through industry placements. Moreover, we offer five years of placement assistance and guidance to all our students.
Full time Industry Project and Seminar
20
Credits
Semester 2
Data Science
DBMS Lab
School Of Computer Science
MCA is best suited for individuals with a background in computer science or a related field interested in pursuing a career in software development, programming, or information technology. The
Law of Evidence
Web Technologies Through PHP Lab
FAQs
Java Programming Lab
Semester-I
INR 50 LPA - highest package in Year 2022.
Master of Computer Applications
Selection Criteria
Semester-II
3
Why Study MCA at UPES School of Computer Science?
Computer Networks
*Placement statistics refer to the number of students who have opted for and are eligible for placements
Domain Elective-2 Lab
Python Programming Lab
Academics
Forensic Tools *4
(MCA) program is designed to equip students with the expertise to design, develop, and manage software systems and applications and provide them with the necessary critical thinking, problem-solving, and decision-making skills. Graduates of this program can pursue careers in various industries such as finance, healthcare, e-commerce, education, and government. The
Computer Graphics
What is the average salary after the MCA course?
Venture Ideation and Entrepreneurship
What are the different specialisations  I can opt for in MCA?
for techno-managerial careers.
1
Overview of the topics covered in the MCA program, include topics, duration, and credit details. Despite specialised disciplines, the courses have customised curriculums that can help students switch career domains to other technological disciplines if they wish to do so. Total Credits of MCA with specialisation is 122.
19
Load More
Web Technologies Through PHP
Domain Elective-5 Lab
UPES has a proven track record of providing career placements to 94% of its students. More than 560 companies, including Hyundai, Vedanta, Halliburton, and L&T Infotech, hire students for different roles.
Semester abroad opportunity at The University of California, Berkeley.
26
Last Date to Apply : February 28, 2025
Cyber Security Consultant
With the increasing demand for Technology professionals in various industries, choosing any of the specialisations mentioned above can offer promising career opportunities and high earning potential. Students can further choose to pursue a Master's in Computer Applications or choose from some of these career options:
The MCA program at UPES is perfect for those wishing to pursue technical careers in banking or computer science. The MCA course curriculum is designed to help students develop their analytical thinking, scientific curiosity, and problem-solving skills.
Object-Oriented Analysis and Design Using UML
Python Programming
Subject Code
Forensic Computer Analyst
The course is also a great way to build the technical expertise required for pursuing further degrees such as a Master of Technology (M.Tech). or PhD in Computer Science or Artificial Intelligence. The course is also appropriate for students who want to pursue an MBA in the future for techno-managerial careers.
Data Visualisation
Program Fee Structure
Business Communication and Ethics
for a detailed Fee Structure.
IT Manager
Network Administrator
UPES offers different specialisations for MCA courses catering to a wide range of subjects in the technical and financial domains. The duration of all the specialisations is three years or six semesters.
Placement assistance for up to 5 years.
UPES’ readiness and commitment to ensure continuous learning through its safety and hygiene program has been exemplary. Another major advantage of pursuing the MCA program from UPES in 2023 is access to the university’s industry partners. UPES holds many networking and career events yearly where students can interact with industry personnel and build a strong professional network.
Domain Elective-2
Domain Elective-1
Here is why you should enrol in the MCA program at UPES:
Biometric processing
Industry alliances with IBM, Xebia, Microsoft and more.
Career Opportunities
IT Act and Practices-Cyber Law
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Despite the upheaval caused by the recent pandemic, UPES has been continuously striving to deliver quality education through new teaching and assessment techniques. UPES has embraced the new normal by partnering with Bureau Veritas, a world leader in testing, inspection, and certification services.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Home
Subject
Collection of feedback and reviews from our former students, providing valuable insights into the course's quality, faculty, infrastructure, and career prospects
Cyber-crime investigator
Personal Interview / CUET
UPES has a proven track record of providing 94% of its students with career placements. More than 560 companies hire students for different roles, including Hyundai, Vedanta, Halliburton, and L&T Infotech.
Semesters
Credit transfer programme facilitating progression opportunity abroad at The University of Queensland, Australia.
The Master of Computer Application or MCA is a two-year professional postgraduate program under the School of Computer Science.
(MCA) program also provides opportunities for research and further education in computer science. Overall, an MCA degree is best suited for individuals who have a passion for computer science and want to make a meaningful contribution to the field.
The innumerable attractive career prospects in the tech space after graduation are one of the primary USPs of an MCA degree from UPES.
IT security *3
Eligibility Criteria
The course is also a great way to build the technical expertise required for pursuing further degrees such as Master of Technology (M.Tech) or PhD in Computer Science or Artificial Intelligence. The course is also appropriate for students pursuing an
.
For Hostel Fee Information,
Social Internship
Minimum 50% in Class X and XII & 50% aggregate marks in BCA or B.Sc. (Computer Science) or B.Sc. (Information Technology) or any Graduation with Computer Science / IT as a subject for three years OR with (Mathematics or Statistics or Business Math’s or Business Statistics or QT as one of the subjects at Graduation or 10+2 level) or equivalent.
Click here
Modelling and Simulation
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Student Testimonials
Ranked 61st in India in the Engineering category by NIRF 2022.
Domain Elective-4
Domain Elective-3
Digital Evidence