Living Conversation
Operating Systems
Cyber Security Engineer
Semester 4
Statistics and Data
B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering
The B.Tech. CSE course will equip you with skills that can be applied in various jobs.
L
This 4-year program consists of selected modules crafted with input from top industry leaders. The coursework is designed to evolve alongside dynamic concepts in computer science, prioritising relevance and application for students. Students also learn through regular training sessions in the UPES' state-of-the-art computer labs and mandatory industry or public sector internships.
Minors
PE-2 Lab
5
MC Simulation
Critical Thinking and Writing
You must fulfil the eligibility criteria to get admission into the B.Tech. CSE course. Students must either appear for the UPESEAT exam and qualify for the test or apply through one of the non-examination pathways. The eligibility criteria for the non-exam pathways are as follows:
Click Here
Semester 1
Environmental Sustainability and Climate Change - II
Does UPES provide scholarships for B.Tech. Program?
Data Structures and algorithms Lab
Python programming Lab
Object Oriented Programming
Credit
Internet of Things
SAT score, to be updated on the UPES website post the result declaration of SAT AY 2025.
Data communication and Networks Lab
PE-1 Lab
Industry-leading placement packages of up to ₹50 LPA.
Web Developer
25
to know more.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
2
Semester 5
Programming in C Lab
Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology
The computer labs at UPES are equipped with the latest technology to complement the coursework.
PE-1
8
Specialisations
PE-3
Summer Internship
Cloud Architect
Data Analyst
Problem Solving
23
Semester 3
Our students have received attractive packages worth up to INR 50 LPA through industry placements. Moreover, we offer lifetime placement assistance and guidance to all our students.
Physics for Computer Engineers
21
* For further details, refer to T&C
Data Structures and algorithms
Network Security Engineer
Close
Placements
Formal Languages and
Database Management Systems
Curriculum 2023-2027
Linux Lab
PE-4 Lab
4
Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Discrete Mathematical Structures
Semester 6
What are the internship opportunities for students at UPES?
Climate Change - I
Analysis
P
Lab
Linear Algebra
Semester 2
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Software Developer
Data Science
DevOps
School Of Computer Science
Mathematics – I
22
18
FAQs
Exploratory-2
Graphics and Gaming
PE-3 Lab
Ranked 42th by NIRF in the Engineering category in 2024.
UPESEAT / JEE-Mains / Board Merit / SAT/ CUET
Selection Criteria
Students can opt for a core subject and choose any two electives from various options. The course provides a dual advantage of subject knowledge expertise and simulated experiences that prepare them for the real world. Each semester consists of theory and practical training for every course, helping students develop proficiency in various new fields in the engineering space. Our alumni network consists of leaders in different sectors of IT and allied industries.
T
Research Methodology in CS
Software Engineering
3
How can I get admission into the B.Tech. CSE program at UPES?
Automata Theory
Exploratory-5
Credit transfer program to the University of Queensland, Australia, for career progression.
Academics
Web Designer
Programming in C
Digital Electronics
Minimum 50% marks in Class X and XII. Minimum 50% in PCM (Physics/Chemistry and Mathematics) in Class XII along with JEE mains cut-off, to be updated on the UPES website post the result declaration of JEE mains AY 2025.
Design and Analysis of Algorithms Lab
Object Oriented Analysis and Design
1
Exploratory-1
Start your Startup
Load More
Here are a few profiles you can apply for immediately after completing the course:
Probability, Entropy, and
How are the computer labs at UPES?
Minimum 80% marks at Higher and Senior Secondary Level and minimum 80% aggregate in PCM Physics, Chemistry and Math) at Senior Secondary Level.
Security Analyst
Here is why you should enrol in the B.Tech. CSE program at UPES:
,
Environmental Sustainability and
PE-5
Cyber Security & Digital Forensics
Students are expected to have a minimum of 50% marks in class X and XII, and a minimum of 50% in Physics, Chemistry and Maths.
The B.Tech. CSE Course at UPES is a 4-year specialised course for acquiring domain knowledge in several fields, including Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security & Digital Forensics, DevOps, Big Data, Full Stack Development, Graphics & Gaming, and others.
Semester abroad program at the University of California, Berkeley.
Program Fee Structure
Compiler Design
Exploratory-3
Game Developer, and more.
PE-4
Why Study B.Tech. CSE at UPES?
for a detailed Fee Structure.
Minor Project
Security Architect
Data Scientist
Semester 8
Python programming
Data communication and Networks
Career Opportunities
IT Consultant
Curriculum
to learn about additional fee payments.
Yes, hostel facility is provided by the University. Residential blocks have been earmarked for limited on-campus accommodation (on first come, first serve basis), separately for boys and girls on triple sharing basis. Students wishing to avail hostel facility (on-campus) will need to deposit fee in advance.
Full Stack Development
Home
Core Computer Science
Big Data Engineer
PE-5 Lab
Threat Intelligence Analyst
TOTAL
UPES’ annual placement drive gives students a chance to interact with recruiters from leading start-ups and MNCs from around the world. Here are some top recruiters at UPES:
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Lifetime placement assistance.
Learning Lab
Students at UPES get unparalleled industry experience through our alliances with organisations like IBM, Microsoft, Xebia, and more. Many career progression opportunities are available to students at UPES, with a chance to complete the degree at top-ranked international institutions like the University of Queensland, Australia.
Exploratory-4
Eligibility Criteria
Advanced Engineering
Semester 7
Leadership and Teamwork
.
The B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering (CSE) program at UPES is a 4-years course designed to help students carve a career in the competitive field of Computer Science. Students can pick a specialisation from various in-demand streams like Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security and Forensics, DevSecOps and others.
UPES encourages students to do mandatory internships in the public sector, social sector, and industry to complete the course successfully. We also provide placements at some of the biggest organisations in the country upon successful completion of the course.
Computer Systems Analyst
Capstone Project - Phase-1
For Hostel Fee Information,
Cryptography and Network
Design Thinking
Computer organization and Architecture
B.Tech. CSE - Course Overview
PE-2
Click here
Object Oriented Programming Lab
The B.Tech. CSE program at UPES is well-rounded and sets students up for success in the engineering field. Students bag industry-leading placement packages with end-to-end placement assistance from the University. Moreover, through our Global Pathway Program, students can complete their training at world-class institutions overseas.
IT Ethical Practices
Advanced Engineering Mathematics – II
Database Management Systems Lab
Are there hostel facilities for boys and girls getting admission for the course?
Learning
Course
Big Data
Security
100% placements at multi-national companies like Microsoft, Maruti Suzuki, ZS Associates, Gojek, Infosys, Airtel, and more.
0
Scope and Highlights of B.Tech. CSE
Know More
Capstone Project - Phase-2