Dr. Ashish Aggarwal
Apply Now
Learn More
PIPE SIM*
Undergraduate Labs
Department of
Associate Professor
Particulate Technology
Faculty
View All
Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Mining, rock mechanics, and mine ventilation laboratory
Reservoir and Production
Drilling Fluid and Cementation
*Industry-endowed software
Hydrothermal liquefaction of sewage sludge to bio-oil
Individual and Teamwork:
Volume displacement studies in sandstone and microfluidic devices using surfactant polymer slugs
PROSPER
Mission
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
FAQs about Energy Department (Chemical Engineering and Petroleum Engineering & Earth Sciences)
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Specialisations
Assistant Professor (Selection Grade)
Software
Applied Petroleum Engineering
Programs
Postgraduate
Project management and finance:
Corrosion studies apparatus
About the Department
SIMSCI PIPE PHASE
Professor
High-pressure batch reactor
Chemical Engineering Research Lab
Close
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, responsibilities, and norms of the engineering practice.
CMG*
Energy Engineering
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
Conversion of biomass-derived syngas to dimethyl ether, a substitute for LPG and diesel.
M.Tech.
Designing of twin screw reactor for catalytic pyrolysis of biomass
Communication:
Chemical Reaction Engineering
Refining and Petrochemicals
School of Advanced Engineering
Program Outcome
How does the department promote research?
The extensive curriculum includes a curated mix of seminars, projects, internships, and research-based learning, the focus of which is on clean energy, SDGs, unconventional hydrocarbon resources, etc. This  360-degree approach to learning ensures that students are fully ready and competent to face the demands of the dynamic industry and its needs. The curriculum is built to include courses like Data Analytics, Digitization, Automation of process, AI/ML, etc., which will fortify the students’ skillset, a crucial need for the next decade in the industry
Process Dynamics, Instrumentation and Control Lab
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Undergraduate
Problem analysis:
Dr. Annapurna Boruah
ASPEN PLUS (V8+)
The engineer and society:
Design/development of solutions:
Volume displacement studies apparatus
Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Dr. Atul Kumar Patidar
Magnetic stirrer cum hot plate with digital controller
Academics
Rig-zone hosting various drilling and service well equipment.
Digitization of Process Technology
Ethics:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Minors - AI&ML, IoT, Blockchain, Data science, Bio-mimetics, Sustainability engineering, Climate change, Disaster management, Reclaim engineering, Astronomy & Astrophysics, Space Engineering, Statistics & probability, Economics.
Dr. Amit Kumar Thakur
Air oven with digital temperature controller-cum-indicator
Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for public health and safety, and cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
MATLAB
Development of reusable adsorbents for treating effluents of dyeing units
Mass Transfer Lab
Institutionalise to inculcate the highest standards of professional practices in the cluster to be a global center of academic excellence.
Instrumentation and Control
Chemical Engineering
Modern tool usage:
Establish ethical thinking, and professional behaviour with a holistic thought process and excel professionally, and personally.
A rock museum housing a variety of major sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rocks.
Equipment
A few ongoing research projects
Facilities
Mass Transfer
Department Of Energy Engineering
The Energy Cluster sets out to fortify the core engineering principles of every learner in such a way that their application to complex scenarios is a seamless one. The Energy cluster offers three undergraduate (NBA accredited) and four postgraduate degrees. B. Tech Applied Petroleum Engineering was established in 2003 as a program dedicated to meeting industry requirements. M.Tech in Petroleum Engineering was established in 2007. B.Tech in Chemical Engineering and an M.Tech in Chemical Engineering started in the year 2009. B.Sc. Geology and M.Sc. Petroleum Geoscience programs started in 2020. M.Tech Renewable Energy was launched in 2023.
ProSimulator (2017)
Develop world-class energy professionals by actively collaborating with the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, renewable, and mining industry.
The cluster organizes a mega event ‘Energy Summit’ every year, where academicians, students, researchers, policymakers and industry personnel converge to discuss the current status of energy, energy transitions, energy policies and infrastructure, clean energy, automation in energy and its application, energy materials and current Indian and global scenarios.
Synthesis of ceramic membranes for oil-water emulsion separation
Department of Energy Engineering
Petroleum Geosciences
Fluid Mechanics
To be internationally recognized as a pathbreaking, centre-of-excellence cluster in Energy and related studies. To establish a culture of academic excellence, path-breaking research, and outstanding student outcomes.
Dr. Ajay Mittal
ECLIPSE*
Life-long learning:
PAN Systems
Geology and Geophysics lab
Understand the impact of professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Dissolution kinetics studies apparatus
PETREL*
Department Details
Home
Be seen as a solutions provider for sustainable and affordable energy solutions leading to an enhanced value chain for the greater societal good.
Sr. Associate Professor
Mechanical shaker
Heat Transfer
Create an environment conducive to pathbreaking research and cutting-edge innovations in energy technologies.
The Cluster has carried out 14 funded research projects worth INR 18.5 crore funded by MNRE, DST and IOCL (R&D) involving renewable and non-renewable energy sectors. The cluster has:
Overview
Energy Systems and Storage
Gas Engineering Informatics
Eligibility Criteria
M.Sc.
Renewable Energy
Read More
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Engineering knowledge:
Intelligent Petroleum Systems
Muffle furnace with digital temperature controller-cum-indicator
Environment and sustainability:
Vision
Recognize the need for and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
Halliburton Landmark*
Petroleum Product Testing
COMSOL
High-pressure fixed bed plug flow reactor
Petroleum Engineering
B.Tech
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using the first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.