Leadership & Teamwork
Future Scope / Industry Trends
can also work in the civil, naval, and PSUs/R&D Labs sectors, developing and improving electronic systems for various applications, including transportation, defence, and research.
The process of selection criteria for students interested in pursuing
Semester 4
+91
The students will have hands-on experience in laboratory exercises such as wind tunnel testing, flight simulations, and structural analysis that help them apply theoretical concepts in practical situations.
Spacecraft Systems Engineer
L
Physics Lab
First Name
Specialization-III
Propulsion I
Introduction to Aerospace Engineering
Basic Electrical and Electronics
Critical Thinking and Writing
Course Details
Semester 1
engineers due to the increasing adoption of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and the need for advanced navigation and communication systems in aircraft. Additionally, the growth of the automotive industry will also require
Aerodynamics II
Technologies for The Future
Object Oriented Programming
Chemistry
Credit
program offers a strong foundation in Aerospace Engineering by covering fundamental topics such as flight mechanics, aerodynamics, propulsion systems, structures, and materials science.
Program details
Eligibility
Course Type
I accept
Please Select Condition
program has witnessed recruitment by well-known organizations, including Airbus, Boeing India Private Limited, United Airlines, TATA Advanced Systems Limited, and more. The highest package offered for the program was Rs. 10 lakhs per annum, and the average package was Rs. 4.82 lakhs per annum. Over the past five years, the program has achieved a 100% placement record.
Material Testing Lab
Please enter email address
Contact Us
2
Semester 5
*
Specialization-V
See Placements
B.Tech. (Engineering)
Aircraft Systems and Fabrication
Aircraft Materials and Processes
for detailed Fee Structure.
Aerospace Vehicle Design
Call Me
23
Semester 3
School Tour
Aircraft Systems and Instruments
21
Fee Structure
B. Tech
Specialization-IV
Close
Major project-II
Propulsion II
terms & conditions
Placements
Please enter first name
The minimum eligibility criteria for
Mobile Number
4
Physics
Semester 6
20
Select Course
P
Lab
Semester 2
Heat Transfer for Aerospace
Mechanics of Materials
EVS I
Structural Engineer
Graduates of this program can pursue a variety of career paths in the aviation and aerospace industries, including aircraft and spacecraft design, avionics systems engineering, or research and development.
Capstone-II
School of Advanced Engineering
22
Start Your Start-up
B.Tech. Aerospace Engineering - AVIONICS
Please Select Course Type
Propulsion Engineer
avionics engineers
Aerodynamics Lab
Industrial Internship
Selection Criteria
T
3
Aerodynamics I
program aims to produce proficient professionals by imparting training in various fields related to defence technology, space technology, and avionics. The program is supported by knowledgeable faculty from renowned national and international institutions. The
B. Tech in Aerospace Engineering (Avionics)
The program focuses on imparting knowledge on how to design and analyse aerospace systems using CAD tools and principles of engineering design.
Academics
The B. Tech in Aerospace Engineering (Avionics) program provides students with opportunities to work on internships and projects with industry partners to gain practical experience and develop professional networks.
The future scope of
Engineering Mathematics II
is: Minimum 50% marks in Class X and XII with 50% in PCM in Class XII.
How To Apply
Some of the roles that
1
Space Technology Lab
Enquiry Form
Applications
Computational Mechancis
Please enter mobile number
Avionics Engineer
Orbital Mechanics
avionics
Workshop Practices
Students can choose elective courses that allow them to specialize in specific areas of aerospace engineering such as space systems engineering, avionics, or unmanned aerial systems.
-- None --
Satellite Systems Engineer
--None--
is promising due to the growing demand for avionics engineers in various industries. The aerospace industry, in particular, is seeing a rise in demand for
Avionics
,
Propulsion Lab
Aircraft Avionics System Lab
Computational Mechanics Lab
program by UPES is a comprehensive course that aims to produce industry-ready professionals in the field of avionics, space technology and defence technology. The program is taught by experienced faculty from nationally recognized institutions and foreign universities. The course is an amalgamation of aeronautical engineering and three specializations - space technology, avionics, and defence technology.
Exploratory 1
Industrial Visit
Aerospace Engineering
Engineering
Capstone-I
Avionics engineers
Fluid Mechanics
Aircraft structures-II
Flight Mechanics-II
Aircraft Performance Engineer
Engineering Mechanics
Aircraft Designer
Engineering Graphics
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
Engg. Lab
Semester 8
Career Opportunities
to design and develop autonomous vehicles and electric propulsion systems. Renewable energy and nuclear industries are other sectors where avionics engineers can play a role in the development of wind turbines, solar-powered aircraft, and instrumentation and control systems for nuclear power plants.
Aircraft Structures Lab
program provides graduates with a range of career options in the industry. Career options offer diverse opportunities for students to specialize in various aspects of the aerospace industry. With B. Tech in Aerospace Engineering (Avionics) degree, graduates can pursue a rewarding career in the aerospace industry, working on the cutting edge of technology and innovation.
Curriculum
EVS I (Living Lab)
The
graduates can take up include:
Home
Major project-I
is based on the individual's performance in UPESEAT / JEE Mains/ Board Merit / SAT/ CUET
Specialization-I
Email Address
B. Tech Aerospace Engineering (Avionics)
Fluid Mechanics Lab
Exploratory 6
TOTAL
Living Conversations
Vibration & Aeroelasticity
Admission Process
program is designed to equip students with the necessary skills and knowledge to pursue careers in the aerospace industry. The course includes a mix of theoretical and practical learning, with students gaining hands-on experience through industry internships and projects. Upon completion of the program, graduates can find employment in the aviation industry, space research organizations, defence organizations, and government agencies.
Suggested Videos
Apply now
Aircraft Structures-I
Semester 7
Eligibility Criteria
Please select Course
Exploratory 2
Social Internship
Further Information
Flight Mechanics-I
Design Thinking
Click here
Exploratory 5
Object Oriented Programming Lab
Specialization-II
Engineering Mathematics I
Computational Techniques
Working with Data
Introduction to Thermodynamics
The avionics specialization of the program focuses on the fundamentals of electromagnetic waves, microwaves and radar with an emphasis on their application to communication, navigation and control of aircraft and satellite systems. The curriculum includes courses such as microwaves and radar engineering, navigation guidance and control, and avionics system design. Students learn to design and develop avionics systems that are used for navigation, communication, and control of aircraft and spacecraft.
Course
Exploratory 4
Exploratory 3
0
Last Name