Semester 4
Course from School for Life II
+91
First Name
Minors
Portfolio Manager
Course Details
Semester 1
Data Analyst/Scientist
Eligibility
Course Type
I accept
Please Select Condition
Please enter email address
Contact Us
Exploratory Course II
to know more.
2
Semester 5
Economics Elective I
Exploratory Course VI
*
Course from School for Life III
Internship
Courses
8
Course from School for Life VI
for detailed Fee Structure.
Data in Social Sciences and Humanities
Call Me
Calculus I
Private Equity Analyst
Semester 3
The program curriculum has a strong focus on student learning beyond traditional lectures. Case studies and simulations are one of the primary pedagogy tools where students are presented with real-world financial problems faced by listed companies and organizations, allowing them to apply theoretical concepts to practical situations. The curriculum focuses on project-based assessment of students. Through individual projects, students analyze financial data, make decisions, and present their findings in the form of a report. The projects allow students to apply their learning in a practical context and develop analytical and problem-solving skills. We have a Data Lab equipped with state-of-the-art statistical software and financial applications. Students use their time outside the classroom to develop the expertise to use these applications for their projects. In addition, the program encourages students to attend national and international conferences and workshops where they can learn about the latest developments in the fields of economics and finance. Additional emphasis is given in developing critical thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills so that students are successful in a wide range of professional positions.
School Tour
Data Analysis in Python
Selection to the B.Sc. (Hons.) Economics with Data Science program is highly competitive and is limited to an intake of only 40 students. The selection criteria is a valid CUET.
Fee Structure
Students may also pursue advanced degrees in Economics or Finance and work towards a career in Academics, Public Services, or Policymaking in the Government and NGO sector.
Financial Econometrics
Close
Ideas of India
Transdisciplinary learning environment with exposure to learners from six UPES schools viz. Engineering, Computer Science, Law, Management, Design and Health Sciences.
Transdisciplinary Learning
Data for Humanities and
Placements
Please enter first name
terms & conditions
Faculty from Renowned Institutions
Mobile Number
4
Semester 6
Research Seminar
Credits
Exploratory Course VIII
Advanced Corporate Finance
Select Course
Course from School for Life I
Linear Algebra
Semester 2
Program Details
Industry Analyst
B.Sc. (Hons.)
50% in 10th & 12th in any stream
Please Select Course Type
Private Wealth Manager
Course from School for Life V
Exploratory Course VII
Exploratory Course V
Core Courses
Selection Criteria
Econometrics II
3
Macroeconomics II
The minimum eligibility criteria for B.Sc. in Economics and Finance to be fulfilled by interested students are as follows:
Academics
Econometrics I
Microeconomics I
School of Liberal Studies and Media
Principles of Economics
How To Apply
Dissertation
Enquiry Form
Probability and Statistics I
Please enter mobile number
Access to globally renowned academicians, researchers, and thinkers from marquee institutions such as Cambridge, Cornell, Imperial College, and NUS Singapore enabling exposure to innovative knowledge and perspectives in the field.
Risk Analyst/Manager
Research Methodology
What sets our program apart is its emphasis on transdisciplinary learning, where students are encouraged to draw connections between economics and finance and explore the interactions between these disciplines. For example, students are thoroughly trained to apply economic theories to analyze the behaviour of financial markets and to use econometrics models for financial forecasting. Similarly, students exploring courses on artificial intelligence may use their programming skills to develop cutting-edge algorithms for financial analysis.
Job oriented electives
The two steps of the selection process entail:
-- None --
--None--
,
Market Research Analyst
With their expertise in economics and finance, students will be ably skilled to pursue the following roles:
Finance Elective I
Course from School for Life IV
Economics Elective III
Introduction to Programming:
Handling Financial Data Project
Profile-based shortlisting
Please enter last name
Program Highlights
Semester 8
Economics Elective IV
Career Opportunities
Macroeconomics I
Elective Courses
Curriculum
Social Sciences
Financial Economics
Global Exposure
Sampling Techniques
Interview Process with Expert Panel
Experiential Pedagogy
14
Financial Analyst
Home
Emphasis on a comprehensive understanding of the financial sector and financial markets.
Economics Elective II
Exploratory Course IV
Investment Strategist
Exploratory Course I
Email Address
Economics and Finance
Research Analyst
To opt the minors, please choose the minors from the bucket.
Interdisciplinary
Admission Process
The B.Sc. in Economics and Finance program at UPES is designed to offer students the opportunity to master economic theory and financial principles. The coursework focuses on project-based learning where economics and financial models are explained using real-world data and case studies. The economics and finance core courses are designed to build a strong theoretical foundation in the subjects, along with analytical tools and quantitative skills. A team of dedicated faculty leads the program from the best institutions in the world and provides individual guidance to students to excel in the program.
B.Sc. (Hons.) - Economics and Finance
Apply now
Investment Consultant
Semester 7
Please select Course
Eligibility Criteria
The B.Sc. program is led by a team of distinguished faculty from leading universities in India and abroad. Their diverse academic background and research interests complement the hands-on experiential learning focus of the program. Their dedication towards excellence in teaching and research ensures that our students receive the best training towards their degrees. The faculty provides individual guidance and mentorship to each student and prepares them to have a successful career in professional positions.
Calculus 2
Opportunities for developing applied skills through firsthand learning experiences in the form of internships, fellowships, research seminars and, masterclasses
Further Information
Gender and Society
Exploratory Course III
Click here
Environmental Studies
Finance Elective II
Introduction to Finance
10
The B.Sc. program provides students with unparalleled global exposure and opportunities for cross-cultural learning. Students have the chance to broaden their outlook and enhance their undergraduate experience through our semester exchange and semester abroad programs at prestigious institutions such as the University of Bologna in Italy, the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, the University of Warsaw in Poland, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, HEIP: School of International and Political Studies in France, or University of California, Berkeley.
Course
Last Name