Runway Incubator Milestone
Mohit Satyanand
Founder and CEO
Shilpa Sharma
Home
Vikas Shah
Couriero
Close
Atal Innovation Misssion, Fmr. Addition. Secretary-Niti Aayog
Program Director
https://www.runwayincubator.com/
Jaypore
TiE
Success Stories
Incubation Centre -IIT Ropar
Siddharth Gupta
Bhuvan Ralhan
Managing Partner
Overview
Uday Chatterjee
Founder
Flux Motors
Eligibility Criteria
UPES launched its flagship project ‘Runway,’ a Start-up Incubator Program in 2021 that works with start-ups within and outside the university. It nurtures ideas, provides funding, and helps them transition into strong, scalable, and successful businesses, thereby preparing students not just to be job seekers but job creators as well. Over 250 start-ups have been incubated at Runway since its launch in 2021, and more than INR 20 crore in funding has been raised so far. Recently, Runway launched cohort 4.0, with 100 start-ups pre-incubated in this cohort alone. UPES has also received an INR 5 crore grant under NIDHI i-TBI (Inclusive-Tech Business Incubator).
Ramanan Ramanathan
University
Dehradun
Indian Hemp Store
Angel Investor
Former (1st) Mission Director
Start-Up
Sri Prakash
Team Works
Dr. Pushpendra P. Singh
Rajnish Kapur
Mentorship
India Angel Network
Runway plays a crucial role in fostering entrepreneurship and supporting startups through various mentoring initiatives, designed to provide guidance, resources, and expertise to help budding entrepreneurs develop their business ideas and navigate the challenges of starting and growing a new venture. Mentoring is provided by faculty members, alumni, industry experts, or successful entrepreneurs who provide advice and guidance to startup teams. There are regular meetings, discussions, and feedback sessions where mentors share their insights, experiences, and advice. Tailored to the specific needs of startups, there are one-on-one mentoring sessions, group sessions, or a combination of both, depending on the stage of development and the challenges faced by the startup. To know more, visit