Abhishek Chamoli
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner, Vidushi Singh, continues to excel in her sport with remarkable skill and dedication.
National Space Convention Renaissance 3.0
Priyanka Bhatt
B.Tech.
Social Internship - Srijan
Satvik Srivastava
UPES has created avenues for our alumni to upskill by enrolling for various courses in Deep Tech, the Metaverse, Digital Transformation, and Leadership at four locations in India – Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Dehradun.
UPES is one of the few universities in India that offer social internships in the first year to all students, irrespective of their field of study. While UPES has conducted social internships in the past, what makes Srijan unique is that it is a mandatory six-week-long social internship. It firmly puts the ‘social’ at the centre of learning for university students. It drives home the point that the core purpose of education is to better the lives of others and the community as a whole. Social internships introduce students to the society and its challenges and create value systems of service, giving, empathy and respect for those who are less fortunate.
Placed at Accenture
The university boasts of a robust and successful career services department. Its partnerships with industries ensure that the students have adequate exposure and get rapidly absorbed into professional roles upon completion of their studies. At UPES, the focus is on developing a world-class pool of young and talented professionals who are ready to hit the ground running in their respective fields. The learning environment and practical hands-on approach help students forge ahead on their chosen career paths with a positive attitude, the right skill set and practical know-how. Because of the relevant and ‘real world’ education and ‘on-the-job’ exposure, the industry-readiness of UPES students has been one of the key differentiators.
Abhishek Chamoli, a B.Tech student from the UPES School of Computer Science, as he sets new standards with his remarkable achievements!
School Of Advanced Engineering
Vidushi Singh
Abhay Kaushik
MBA
Energy Summit 2022
& Outcomes
Muskan Handa
School Of Design
Developed affordable and locally-made 3D printers
UPES offers lifetime placements/career opportunities to its alumni. There is a special ninja team that assists the alumni in their job transitions. There are numerous networking opportunities and guidance on personal branding that help them make a mark as competent professionals.
Close
Student Outcomes
For the alums keen to make a mark as entrepreneurs, the university’s start-up incubator, Runway, runs 5 incubation boot camps, especially for them, and has a yearly incubation cohort for up to 40 alumni startups with assured funding for at least 5 start-ups.
Placements
Secured multiple offers
For the alumni interested in higher studies, UPES offers 50% scholarship for their Master’s, preferential allotments for sponsored PhDs, and up to 35% special scholarships at our partner universities.
Kirty Gupta
SKILLS
Bhumika Joshi
Siddhivinayak Dubey
Design Labs
School of Advanced Engineering
Infrastructure
From classroom learning to boardroom success, Bhumika Joshi’s journey highlights the impact of education and mentorship.
Media Studio
Meet Satvik Srivastava, the visionary founder of Nurture and winner of the Startup Uttarakhand Grand Challenge 2024 🏆, a UPES School of Computer Science student on a mission to transform gardening 🌱.
Manik Garg
INCUBATION
FURTHER EDUCATION
Karan Bhandari
From Dental Surgery to the exciting world of Business Analytics, and finally landing her dream job at Bain & Company, Medha Mathur's career journey is truly inspiring.
CAREERS
School Of Modern Media
It’s a place where they form meaningful personal and professional connections that last throughout their lives and careers. The alumni can return for advice and support as they progress in their careers.
Student Experience & Outcomes Overview
Student Experience
Shweta Sharma
Placed at ONGC
Anvesha, Yashvardhan, Ayushri, Namrata, and Vaibhav
Krishna
The UPES campus is vibrant and provides a conducive environment for learning, research, and personal growth. There are various clubs, societies, and student bodies that cater to varied interests, allowing students to engage in extracurricular activities. The university hosts cultural, technical, and sports events that provide students with a chance to showcase their talents and interact with peers. The scenic beauty and pleasant weather at the campus provide a favorable environment for students to focus on their studies and enjoy their leisure time.
Placed at Bain & Co.
UPES has a proven track record of placements with students working at global firms or studying at international institutions. NEST is a unique initiative for alumni who live and work around the world. UPES Alumni Team proudly supports nearly 22,000 UPES alumni who live and work around the world. The team and alumni volunteers help manage more than 10 UPES Alumni Regional Chapters that meet periodically for various events. Alumni are also welcomed back to the campus to mentor existing students, and as special guests on advisory boards and other committees.
B.Tech. Cyber Security and Forensics
Life @ UPES
Life at UPES
Awarded by the former Chief Justice of India, Dr. DY Chandrachud, Virendra Pratap Singh Rathod, a BA LL.B (Hons) student from UPES, proudly shares his remarkable achievement of winning the inaugural KC Dhulia Memorial Essay Competition! 🏆📚✨
Aprajita Katiyara
Student Achievements
Home
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner
Placed at Microsoft
Convocation Day 2022
Alumni Testimonials
School of Computer Science
3D Tour of UPES Campus using AR/VR Technology
Medha Mathur
Awarded by the former Chief Justice of India, Dr. DY Chandrachud
From discovering his passion for robotics as a student at the School of Advanced Engineering to founding Picraft Technology Pivot Ltd., Krishna is focused on changing the tech world.
Eligibility Criteria
Virendra Pratap Singh Rathod
NEST
Placed at Bain & Company
These initiatives, along with others, shape a learning environment that provides meaningful experiences for Gen Z learners. Our pursuit of excellence and commitment to creating path-breaking ideas in higher education is reflected in our new brand identity as a 'University of Tomorrow'. We aim to lead the way in transforming the education landscape and empowering students to become change bearers and boundary pushers.
NEST is an initiative by UPES for its alumni, creating for them a home for life.
School of Business
Placed with 1.3 Cr CTC
There are 4 distinct areas in which the alumni receive support:
Mechanical Labs
Know More
UPES Dehradun provides modern amenities with state-of-the-art infrastructure to its students. The campus is spread across 44 acres of land with domain-specific labs, hostels, and facilities for curricular and extra-curricular activities. There is a multipurpose playground for playing hockey, cricket, football, and other sports with world-class sports facilities and equipment.
Founder of Nurture