The two-day conference, organized in collaboration with Elsevier, University of Dayton, and Providence University, upheld the tradition of excellence established by previous editions, attracting over 3,800 contributors from 47 countries.
Abhishek Chamoli
Explore our comprehensive programs & learn more about available scholarships, infrastructure & alliances
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner, Vidushi Singh, continues to excel in her sport with remarkable skill and dedication.
Satvik Srivastava
Siddhivinayak Dubey, a student at the School of Computer Science; with a specialization in Graphics and Gaming, accepted an offer of Rs. 50 LPA from Microsoft.
UPES alumni from the 2005-2006 batch, representing top organizations, revisited the campus after years, reminiscing about their journey.
Literature Fest
View All
Companies seek all-round development and not just academic brilliance in candidates during placements. Industry insights in curriculum ensure that our students get an edge to secure the best offers.
Get ready to vibe with UPES at the coolest Women's Bike Rally ever!
Abhishek Chamoli, a B.Tech student from the UPES School of Computer Science, as he sets new standards with his remarkable achievements!
Convocation
Spandan 2024
Vidushi Singh
nd
Student Resources
Virasat 2024
News & Events
September 29, 2024
Law Fest
Vidhi Utsav left us spellbound with its thought-provoking workshops , captivating performances, and a kaleidoscope of cultural delights.
Developed affordable and locally-made 3D printers
Close
Events
Aprajita Katiyar secured her dream job at ONGC, one of India's leading oil and gas companies. She owes this success to her holistic development that was possible through a versatile curriculum
Adapt or Perish - Law Leadership Event
Secured multiple offers
Kirty Gupta
Women's Bike Rally
Bhumika Joshi
Siddhivinayak Dubey
Read more - Academics
Over 300 UPES Bangalore Chapter alumni reunited for a memorable evening with top industry professionals and entrepreneurs.
22
November 28-29, 2024
From classroom learning to boardroom success, Bhumika Joshi’s journey highlights the impact of education and mentorship.
Meet Satvik Srivastava, the visionary founder of Nurture and winner of the Startup Uttarakhand Grand Challenge 2024 🏆, a UPES School of Computer Science student on a mission to transform gardening 🌱.
Manik Garg
From Dreams to Reality
Campus Life
ICMLDE 3.0
Manik Garg, a student at the School of Computer Science; with a specialization in Cyber Security and Forensics, working with a CTC of ₹ 1.3 Cr.
From Dental Surgery to the exciting world of Business Analytics, and finally landing her dream job at Bain & Company, Medha Mathur's career journey is truly inspiring.
March 8, 2024
Freshers 2024 was all about creating memories and friendships that will last a lifetime!
Academics
January 24-26, 2025
Watch Now
Watch as we celebrate a vibrant night of Garba and colorful ethnic outfits during Dholida 2024!
October 15 - 29, 2024
Access bulletin, policies, curriculum and more
Convocation, a landmark celebration of academic achievements.
Access & Engage through Our Student Portal!
Success Stories
Homecoming - Alumni Meet
Testimonials
Krishna
June 29, 2024
January 25, 2025
UPES is a dynamic community where you feel supported and encouraged.
The perfect partner an educational journey needs
Awarded by the former Chief Justice of India, Dr. DY Chandrachud, Virendra Pratap Singh Rathod, a BA LL.B (Hons) student from UPES, proudly shares his remarkable achievement of winning the inaugural KC Dhulia Memorial Essay Competition! 🏆📚✨
Alumni Meet - Bangalore Chapter
Freshers 2024
Our campus life is full of exploration and discovery. There are a wide variety of activities that are designed to engage students and help them realise their potential.
Aprajita Katiyara
Home
National champion rifle shooter and 4-time gold medal winner
Students
Alumni Testimonials
Read more - Download
Student Portal
Dholida 2024
Check out the electrifying highlights from the sports and cultural annual fest of UPES
September 28, 2024
Medha Mathur
Awarded by the former Chief Justice of India, Dr. DY Chandrachud
Ukti -
Regardless of where you come from, UPES is your home away from home.
From discovering his passion for robotics as a student at the School of Advanced Engineering to founding Picraft Technology Pivot Ltd., Krishna is focused on changing the tech world.
Eligibility Criteria
Read more - Student Portal
Virendra Pratap Singh Rathod
Placed at Bain & Company
The thought leadership event "Adapt or Perish" brought together industry leaders, academicians, and senior law alumni to explore the evolution of legal education in a tech-driven world.
Read More
Aaj Ki Rani -
Embrace boundless possibilities with our School of Advanced Engineering, where talents like Anvesha, Yashvardhan, Ayushri, Namrata, and Vaibhav shine.
UPES recently concluded its 22
April 13 - 14, 2024
UKTI wasn’t just a literary fest but a reason to celebrate our culture, which is long forgotten in the hustle of the contemporary world.
Vidhi Utsav -
April 5 - 7, 2024
Global Game Jam
December 21-22, 2024
Download
UPES is proud to be associated with Virasat 2024, India’s largest heritage festival in Dehradun, where legendary artists bring traditions to life through their creativity.
Placed at Bain & Co.
UPES successfully hosted the 2nd edition of Global Game Jam, showcasing enthusiastic participation and exceptional creativity in game development.
Founder of Nurture