Home
Anti Ragging
Close
No eatables are allowed in the Computer Centre (or lab). No hardware components can be replaced / swapped without permission. Doing so without permission will result in a penalty. If necessary, guidance of the Systems Administrator is always available.
Unauthorized usage of commercial/free tools to subvert University systems will be dealt with in accordance with the penalties outlined in the Acceptable IT usage policy.
Causing death or abetting suicide
Entry of outsiders is strictly prohibited.
Systems should be shutdown properly and switched off before leaving the Computer Center.
UPES is committed to developing and maintaining an effective, timely, fair and equitable grievance handling system for its students and their parents/guardians, which is easily accessible and offered to complaints.
Assaulting or using Criminal Force or Criminal intimidation;
Bags/folders/bottles etc. are to be kept outside the Computer Centre (or lab).
Student Dress Code
Wrongfully restraining or confining or causing hurt; Taking “introduction” is also an act amounting to ragging
Ragging in any form inside or outside the University Campus and hostel premises (covers campus / private / P.G. / outside areas) is strictly prohibited.
The mind works better in peace and calm. Silence should be maintained.
Discipline
Violation of the status, dignity and honor of the fellow students including those belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, Other Backward Classes or Handicapped / Challenged or any kind of discriminatory behavior on grounds of gender, race, color, religion, region and caste, physical features / appearance etc;
Acts amounting to ragging could be
Eligibility Criteria
Students are advised not to tamper with the computing devices issued to them – either in terms of hardware or software. Formatting of the machine or uninstalling legal software constitutes a violation of the University IT Policy and will be handled accordingly.
Teasing, Embarrassing and Humiliating;
.
Discipline to be maintained while enrolled with the university:
"The way you dress is the way you will be addressed." A proper dress code develops a sense of equality among the students and adds value to their personality. It is expected from all the students to adhere to a smart casual dress code.
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 is a legislative act in India that seeks to protect women from sexual harassment at their workplace. The UPES is committed to providing a safe working and academic environment to all girl students and its women employees. Keeping the dignity of women in mind and to safeguard them from any such incidence at the workplace, the university has created an Internal Complaint Cell for Prevention of Sexual Harassment.
Causing grievous hurt, kidnapping or rape or committing unnatural offence; and
student's portal
Grievance Redressal
Sexual Harassment
To prevent students from Cast, Creed and Religion-based discrimination; UPES has set up an Anti-Discrimination Cell.
University Grants Commission has passed a regulation in the year 2009 to curb the menace of ragging in the Universities in India. UPES adheres to all the guidelines related to anti-ragging published by UGC.
Students are expected to strictly adhere to the Acceptable IT usage policy and social media Policy found on the
The University has also constituted the committee, which ensures that the student is not under any physical and psychological harm.
Internet usage should be in accordance with the Acceptable IT usage policy and Acceptable Downloads and Executable policy of the University. Both these documents are available at
Tampering with files of others in the desktop/network will be seriously viewed.
Student Affairs
Student Space
Anti-Discrimination
Damaging any IT equipment in class rooms or labs will result in a penalty.