ASME - American Society of Mechanical Engineers
16
UPES ACM-W (Association for Computing Machinery-Women)
5
GreenUp – HSE
Student of UPES are the primary beneficiary of the program by way of development of their perception about the community, their skill in performing specific jobs, and in developing the qualities of a leader, an organizer, and an administrator and the overall development of their personality as a whole. Through NSS, they get opportunities to see the community closely and thus get an experience of human nature in relation to their environment. This is how the NSS program aims to make the NSS student youth better citizens through “Development of their personality through Community Service.”
Student Chapters
Annual Cultural Festival – Uurja, which gives a platform to students to showcase their talents
17
AAPG - American Association of Petroleum Geologist
6
Computer Society of India (CSI) ( ISSA Dehradun Chapter)
UPES ACM - Association for Computing Machinery
2
Student Engagement
Cultural Activities
KhelUtsav – UPES Sports Festival
ASCE - American Society of Civil Engineers
8
Sr. No.
CSA (Cloud Security Alliance)
As the proverb goes "sound mind resides in sound body". UPES pays emphasis on the both physical and mental health of its students. Located in the lap of nature, the beautiful serene campus offers conducive atmosphere to the students to relax. We provide ample opportunities to the students to explore new healthy ways of living which they may not have been exposed at home. We believe that yoga and meditation are the perfect activities to foster physical and emotional calmness and wellbeing. Yoga and meditation classes at UPES have proven effective to increase academic success and confidence, improve mental health, decrease substance abuse, improve physical health and heightened focus in class.
Microsoft Technical Community - UPES
National Service Scheme
21
Close
UPES Annual Athletics Meet
4
ASSP - American Society Of Safety Professional - FSE/ HSE
20
The cultural committee provides numerous opportunities for students to get involved, have fun, showcase their talents, and compete against other colleges in a variety of competitions. UPES under the aegis of Office of Student Engagement & Experience every year organizes fresher’s party and the
Sports @ UPES
UPES FIPI Student Chapter (Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry)
Uurja – The Annual Festival
22
Intra Mural Tournaments (All Sports)
18
A mid-week activity that allows students to display their cultural talent, This is a mid- week activity planned to break the monotonous routine by providing students a platform to showcase their talent and acknowledge others.
Student Space
3
UPES-CODE CHEF (CIT)
IIChE - Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers
1
13
19
Name of Student Chapter/ Clubs
Aerospace Club
Yoga and Meditation
11
Freshers Party @ UPES
SAEINDIA UPES Collegiate Club - Society of Automotive Engineers India
Yoga & Meditation
ASHRAE - American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers
The National Service Scheme (NSS) has been in operation in UPES since April 2018. The fundamental objective of the NSS is to awaken and enrich the social consciousness of students. The scheme provides an opportunity for students to engage in constructive social action, programs, develop co-operative team spirit and gain skills in democratic leadership quality.
Fresher’s Parties to officially welcome the first-year students are hosted by second-year students, organized by School Cultural Convener under the supervision of the office of Student Engagement & Experience.
9
FSAI - Fire and Security Association of India – HSE
HYPERVISION
Infinity Club – Aerospace
14
Home
12
IEEE - The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Fresher’s Party
Wow Wednesdays
7
Student Chapters provide unique opportunities for networking, mentoring and bonding over common interests
Eligibility Criteria
We believe “when you care enough, you can change the world.” Students continuously participate in Tree plantations, a Donation drive to the less fortunate, rainwater harvesting, Swachta Bharat Abhiyaan, and Women Empowerment.
Uurja 2019
SPE - Society of Petroleum Engineers
Caring for the environment and people around is fundamental to all activities at UPES. University has adopted many schools in villages and suburbs area around to impart primary and higher education and computer literacy.
.
15
The Annual Cultural Festival – Uurja is celebrated for two days at UPES Campus. It is organized by the Office of Student Engagement & Experience. The events are organized in Social, Cultural and Fun categories. Day one of the function is more oriented towards events related to Dance, Music and games with DJ in the evening whereas day two is more of theater and fun events with a performance of a band in the evening.
10
At UPES, we put maximum focus on physical fitness and promote various sports activities. We encourage students to participate and excel in a variety of games and sports that are organized regularly in the university.
SEG - Society of Explorations Geophysicists
Inter-University Participation
Sports Activities