Goals under the SDG are:
d. Equal rights to ownership, basic services, technology, and economic resources
− 625+ women empowered.
a. Eradicate extreme poverty
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development aims to eradicate extreme poverty worldwide by 2030, a goal that has seen significant reductions in extreme poverty, defined as surviving on less than $2.15 per person per day.
No Poverty
Home
− Support the dependent of the martyr in finding job opportunities.
− Offer full higher education scholarships to the children of five martyrs from Uttarakhand every year
− Financial assistance to the family of the martyrs,
Project UK aims to address remote community poverty by building a network of experts.
Close
Major Activities conducted/policies implemented by UPES to help eradicate poverty through education:
− Sports scholarships
c. Implement appropriate social protection systems at the national level.
1.3.4 - Programmes to assist students who fall into the bottom 20% of household income group to  complete their studies
1.3.2 - Graduation/completion targets for students who fall into the bottom 20% of household income group
− Till date 20 families have been supported.
1.3 - University anti-poverty programmes
1.4.3 - Organising training or programmes to improve access to basic services for all
Sustainable Development Goal 1: No Poverty
− Freeships to underprivileged students
Overview
− Up to 100% merit scholarship, 50% reserved for girl students
Eligibility Criteria
− Uttarakhand bonafide resident are eligible for 33% concession in Tuition Fees
Project Vikalp empowers rural women through eco-friendly crafts.
1.4.2 - Financial assistance to the local community assisting the start-up of sustainable businesses
b. Reduce poverty by at least 50%
Read More
1.4.1 - Provide assistance in the local community assisting the start-up of sustainable businesses
− Fund complete school education of one martyr’s children every year
− Provide special training and development to the martyr’s widow under Shakti, the existing women’s empowerment initiative.
1.4.4 - Policy making at local, regional, national and/or global level to implement programmes and policies
UPES funded organization DivIn Pro, an impact driven BPO led by women and marginalized professionals, seeks to end period poverty and promote sustainable development, to alleviate menstrual material shortages and reduce period poverty.
1.3.5 - Schemes to support poor students from low income countries
1.3.1 - Targets to admit students who fall into the bottom 20% of household income group
1.3.3 - Supporting students from poorest families
e. Build resilience to environmental, economic, and social disasters.
Different scholarships targeted towards meritorious students with financial needs, including those from low-income areas, and underprivileged backgrounds are provided as follows.
− In the academic year 2022-23, Rs 2, 51,000/- was given to the Veer Nari Smt Lata Devi Ji (wife of Late Naik Harendra Singh ji) along with a letter to provide free education for both the kids and job to one member of the family.
Sustainable Development Goal 1
Through Project Naman initiative, UPES provides support to the kin of Indian Armed Forces Braveheart’s of Uttarakhand attaining martyrdom in service to the nation. Under the project, UPES provides.
Project Artisan empowered 27 Ladakh women weavers by imparting design skills for collective production and sales of back-strap loom carpets, emphasizing responsible consumption and production using affordable, clean energy.
Sustainable Development Goal
1.4 - Community anti-poverty programmes