Goals under the SDG are:
Major Activities conducted/ policies implemented by UPES:
Home
Project Utthan aims
Ensure universal access to safe green spaces.
Close
Project Artisan
Sustainable Development Goal 11
Minimize environmental impact in cities, focusing on air quality and waste management.
Encourage cities to adopt inclusive and sustainable policies.
Project UK (India Sustainable Development and Research Collaboration)
economically empowers rural womenfolk in the local community through manufacturing of environment-friendly ‘woodless pencils’, tech-assisted handicrafts, and growing medicinal and aromatic plants suitable to the climate and soil in the region.
Foster inclusive and resilient urbanization, particularly in disaster-prone areas.
Overview
Support least developed countries in building sustainable and resilient structures.
Sustainable Development Goal 11 (SDG 11) aims to make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable. It focuses on ensuring access to basic services, affordable housing, sustainable transport, cultural heritage preservation, and disaster resilience. SDG 11 envisions cities that are socially inclusive, environmentally responsible, and capable of withstanding urban challenges.
Eligibility Criteria
Ensure everyone has access to affordable housing and basic services.
Sustainable Development Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities
to transform Dhalani and Koti villages of Dehradun into model smart villages, with special focus on healthcare, education and livelihood. These will be first of many villages to reap the benefits of this program, bringing more development and prosperity to the Indian rural landscape.
Strengthen links between urban, peri-urban, and rural areas.
The University offers programmes-
Provide sustainable and accessible transport systems for all.
M.Tech in Disaster Management, B.Des in Transportation and mobility design, M.Des in Transportation design, B.Tech in Sustainability Management, M.Tech Sustainability Engineering, B.Tech CSE in IOT and Smart Cities.
is aimed at building a network of experts to find sustainable solutions, starting with reviving, modernising, and enhancing the small watermills for rural income enhancement. This networking plan directly addresses the issues of remote community poverty in India and is aimed primarily at the hill communities in Uttarakhand.
empowers local communities, especially women weavers, in a remote village of Ladakh. They are imparted design skills for collective production and sales of back-strap loom carpets, while considering responsible consumption and production that uses affordable-clean energy. The project, which focuses on creating income opportunities, is a partnership between education institutes and local NGOs. It sustains their cultural heritage, without migration to cities from villages, an issue faced in the Ladakh mountains.
Sustainable Cities
Reduce disaster-related deaths and impacts.
Project Vikalp
Safeguard cultural and natural heritage.
Sustainable Development Goal
and Communities