Goals under the SDG are:
Sustainable Development Goal 12 (SDG 12) advocates for responsible consumption and production patterns. It emphasizes efficient resource use, waste reduction, and sustainable management of natural resources. SDG 12 promotes sustainable lifestyles, circular economies, and greater awareness of the environmental impact of consumption, fostering a more sustainable and resilient global economy.
Major Activities conducted/ policies implemented by UPES:
Ensure individuals have information and awareness for sustainable development.
Donation drive for less fortunate
Implement the 10-Year Framework of Programs on Sustainable Consumption and Production.
Home
Ensure environmentally sound management of chemicals and wastes.
Close
Support developing countries in enhancing scientific and technological capacities.
and Production
Sustainable Development Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production
UPES has solar water heating plants of capacity 61500 litres. The university has made it a policy to retrofit all conventional lights on the campus. All the conventional lighting fixtures are being replaced to ensure energy savings. Unity Power Factor is maintained at UPES sites to ensure zero energy loss.
Overview
Develop tools to monitor sustainable development impacts in tourism.
Eligibility Criteria
UPES students have developed flagship engineering projects such as Flying Cars, Electric Cycle, Waste Management, Water Security, First Aid, Fire and Safety, Women Empowerment through Cultivation of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Solar Driers, and Biochar Bio Briquette. Students have also designed anon-tracking solar tree, which is furnished with 3-Watt and 6-Watt LED light, multiple USB 2.0 port and basic electrical socket to charge laptop as well as mobile phone.
Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and integrate sustainability into reporting.
Responsible Consumption
Substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, recycling, and reuse.
Promote sustainable public procurement practices.
Halve global per capita food waste and reduce losses in production and supply chains.
Achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources.
Sustainable Development Goal
Sustainable Development Goal 12