4.3 - Lifelong learning opportunities
Project Payal aims to promote the education of girls in local communities under the banner of "Daughters of UPES". This initiative recognises that educating a girl is one of the most impactful investments in community development, as it benefits entire families.
Major Activities conducted/ policies implemented by UPES:
Build and Upgrade Education Facilities
Home
-Two additional LearnShaalas are proposed at Government Primary Schools in Doonga and Phulsani.
Close
- 22 students have received these scholarships.
Ensure that all boys and girls have access to free, equitable, and quality primary and secondary education.
Expand Scholarships and Support for Developing Countries in building and strengthening their education systems through financial and technical assistance.
Quality Education
4.3.3 - Hosting events at university that are open to the general public
UPES is committed to improving the quality of education in government primary schools by constructing LearnShaalas, specially designed learning spaces aimed at enhancing children's educational schemes.
- LearnShaalas has been constructed at 2 government primary schools: Kandoli and Misraspatti.
4.3.4 - Educational outreach activities beyond campus
Protsaahan: UPES offers free-of-cost higher education opportunities to the underprivileged meritorious students from the Purkal Youth Development Society (PYDS) Learning Academy, Dehradun empowering them to pursue higher education at UPES.
4.3.1 - Access to educational resources for those not studying at the university
- 200 girls have been awarded scholarships.
Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education
Overview
Increase the Number of People with Relevant Skills for Employment and Entrepreneurship: Enhance access to technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and higher education to equip individuals with the skills needed for the workforce.
Promote Inclusive and Lifelong Learning Opportunities
Eligibility Criteria
Promote education for sustainable development, global citizenship, and appreciation of cultural diversity.
Promote equal access to quality education, irrespective of gender, socioeconomic status, disability, ethnicity, or other factors.
Increase the Number of Qualified Teachers
4.3.2 - Hosting events at university that are open to the general public
Read More
Eliminate Gender Disparities in Education at all levels and ensure equal access to education for all genders.
- 900 children have received mid-day meals.
Major Goals of SDG 4:
Sustainable Development Goal
Sustainable Development Goal 4
SDG 4 aims to ensure inclusive, equitable quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all by 2030. Quality education is crucial for sustainable development, poverty reduction, improved health, gender equality, and peace. Collaboration among governments, international organizations, the private sector, and civil society is needed to overcome barriers to education and ensure accessibility, inclusivity, and high-quality education for all.
Improve Literacy and Numeracy Skills among children and adults, with a focus on foundational skills for sustainable development.
UPES operates a Labour School on its Kandoli campus, focusing on early childhood care and education for children of construction workers aged 3 to 8. The school also provides nutritious mid-day meals, ensuring holistic development.