Legal aid camps raise awareness among students about ongoing social issues and encourage them to contribute to resolving these issues, fostering a more inclusive legal aid society.
Major Activities conducted/ policies implemented by UPES:
Peace, Justice and
Home
Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Close
SDG 16 aims to foster peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, guarantee justice for all, and establish effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all levels.
The targets associated with SDG 16 include:
Strong Institutions
− By 2030, significantly reduce illicit financial and arms flows, strengthen the recovery and return of stolen assets, and combat all forms of organized crime.
SDG 16 emphasizes the importance of peace, justice, and strong institutions in promoting sustainable development. It aims to create societies where everyone can live without fear, enjoy equal access to justice, and participate in decision-making processes, thereby laying the foundation for sustainable and inclusive development.
Overview
− Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all.
Eligibility Criteria
− Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms.
− Broaden and strengthen the participation of developing countries in the institutions of global governance.
− Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory, and representative decision-making at all levels.
− Develop effective, accountable, and transparent institutions at all levels.
− Significantly reduce all forms of violence and related death rates everywhere.
− End abuse, exploitation, trafficking, and all forms of violence against and torture of children.
Sustainable Development Goal 16
Sustainable Development Goal
− Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation and international agreements.
− Provide legal identity for all, including birth registration.
The Legal Aid Cell at UPES focuses on assisting those in need by providing legal advice and guiding them through legal challenges. They prioritize the best interest of those in need, protecting rights and promoting collective welfare.