Preventing and Treating Substance Abuse, and its impact on health and wellbeing.
Major Activities conducted/ policies implemented by UPES:
Home
Collaboration with True Wellness App for ‘Main Hoon Na’ initiative to track the health goals, help relieve mental stress, and to provide information related to workouts.
Close
Eliminating preventable Deaths of Newborns and Children
Combating Communicable Diseases
Overview
Ensuring access to essential healthcare services for all, including financial risk protection and access to quality essential healthcare services.
University provides basic healthcare facilities to students and staff members. Doctors on roll provide basic first aid in case of medical emergencies and subsequently student/ staff is assisted in evacuating him/her to nearest hospital.
Eligibility Criteria
.
Sustainable Development Goal 3
Providing 24/7 online counselling services for the students under the umbrella of UPES Cares.
Well Being
Collaborated with MAX hospital to offer annual health check-up of employees at MAX hospital under the Sanjeevani scheme.
The medical treatment cost is to be borne by student or his/her parent. The onus of ensuring the student under medical insurance is on the student and he/she is expected to keep insurance card handy.
Provision of Health Insurance for Staff members
Major Goals include:
Details also available
https://www.upes.ac.in/student-space/student-support
Good Health and
SDG 3 aims to promote good health and well-being for all ages, focusing on improving health outcomes, reducing maternal and child mortality, combating communicable diseases, and ensuring access to essential healthcare services.
Reducing Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs)
Annual Blood donation camps organised by Department of Student Welfare and NSS wing.
Strengthening and improving the overall capacity of health systems.
Sustainable Development Goal 3: Good Health and Well Being
Ensuring access to family planning, information, and education, as well as addressing issues related to reproductive health.
Sustainable Development Goal
Reducing Maternal Mortality
Beating Period Poverty Together’ – Project – Lakhon Khawahishen (Menstrual Hygiene Training at Villages; - 1200+ women
https://admission.upes.ac.in/portal/feel-home/health-and-medical-services