Goals under the SDG are:
Protect and Restore Water-Related Ecosystems: Take action to protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers, and lakes.
Major Activities conducted/ policies implemented by UPES:
Address Water Scarcity and Lack of Access in Vulnerable Regions: Address water scarcity and lack of access to water and sanitation in vulnerable regions, including in conflict-affected areas and regions affected by drought.
Home
Clean Water and
Close
The first-of-its-kind in India, the site boasts a lab, pond, CSTR, and Hydrothermal Liquefaction Reactor, reflecting a collaborative effort between UPES and Vikalp Nai Dishayen.
Dr. Bhawna Lamba developed the
Dr. Bhawna's inspiration from the Swachh Bharat campaign and her expertise in Polymer Technology underpin this groundbreaking venture, currently at Technology Readiness Level 7.
Improve water quality by reducing pollution, minimizing the release of hazardous chemicals and materials, and protecting and restoring water-related ecosystems.
Supported by a ₹73 lakh project, it employs microalgae to treat sewage water, yielding zero waste.
Implement integrated water resources management and increase water-use efficiency in all sectors.
Overview
As per Central Ground Water Authorities, UPES is a
Eligibility Criteria
wastewater reclamation plant
Ensure access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all, and end open defecation.
Achieve Universal and Equitable Access to Safe and Affordable Drinking Water:
.
Protect and Restore Water-Related Ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers, and lakes.
Implement Integrated Water Resources Management at All Levels: Implement integrated water resources management at all levels to ensure the sustainable use of water resources.
Sustainable Development Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation
Sanitation
The University recycled 250 KL of water in the horticulture section, has a 550 KLPD (Kilo Litre Per Day) of recycling capacity, and all rainwater harvesting pits have water flow metres to ensure the feeding of rainwater to the ground, leading to 89% savings of water.
Engage local communities in managing water resources and ensure their participation in decision-making processes related to water and sanitation.
Project Swachhata
‘Zero Water Discharge’ campus
Sustainable Development Goal 6 (SDG 6) aims to ensure access to clean water and sanitation for all by 2030. Addressing water scarcity, improving water quality, and promoting hygiene are central to SDG 6. Achieving this goal contributes to better health, environmental sustainability, and overall global well-being.
Sustainable Development Goal
Sustainable Development Goal 6
focuses on contributing to ‘Clean India’ mission through sustained cleaning of the adjoining community areas