Verde Spazzino
Nikhil Raj
The university helps innovative start-ups with incubation services like Networking Activities, Marketing Help, Training for Developing Presentation Skills, Links to Strategic Partners, Expert Advice, Broad Business Training Programs, and more.
Vishal Kaushik
Vasant Pratap Singh
Wedding Planner
Solid Waste Management
Edu-One
Economic development and talent retention
Research on Industry Trends
16
Bug Burgers
Start-ups
Dios Inspiro
Pramiti Upadhyay
Shantanu Sharma
Technology
Individual Support
Post incubation performance
5
BSV Handicafto LLP
Faculty
To Be Heard
2015
Access to our Mentors
Impart mentoring services to young businesses
Wireless Charging
28
UCIE Partners
Deepankar Mathur
Talent retention
Asmita Singh Bisen
Year 2017
Tushar Tiwari
Powder coating with insulation properties
Cancer Project
17
30
Tyris Internet
Expertise
Economy Enhancement
Access to UPES Academic Experts
Generate business opportunities in the area of renewable energy and green technology
With-U
6
Hi Tech Street Lighting System
UAV
V Mobile
Value of the incubator:
Energy
Ashwin Agarwal
Dhawal Barnwal
25
Vedant Sundariyal
Name of Startup
2
Access to Services
Vertical Farming
Yash Dwivedi
Access to network
Amit Kumar
Pankaj Bhudhwani
Year of Commencement
Healthcare on Wheels
Agri-Business
EatOPedia
Automatic air filling system for 4 wheelers
UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
8
Siddhartha Sarma
Ankur Dumka
Innovation is the vehicle which will steer the next level of economic growth and social development. UPES Council for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (UCIE) was formed with the intention to advance the novel ideas of start-ups and early stage companies. It is a business incubator with focus on technology sectors in the Delhi NCR and Uttarakhand region. The mandate of the centre is to assist entrepreneurs of the UPES community (faculty, staff, alumni and students) as well as the external business community to commercialise their product/service ideas and accelerate economic growth.
Program appeal and post-incubation performance
Tickle
2017
23
Provide R&D infrastructure for innovation-based start-ups
Ayush Vardhan
Highly sought after successful entrepreneurial employees
Contact Information of Promotors (Name of Innovator)
S.No
21
Caked
Objectives
Knowledge and skills relevant to venture creation
Wind Turbine
The workshops developed by UCIE are framed around businesses and involve academic researchers and professionals from the industry. The workshops are organised to provide basic understanding of what it takes to commercialize and thrive in the market. Supported by the faculty of UPES and industry experts, these workshops cover a wide variety of topics, viz. industry analysis, technical feasibility study, market feasibility, demand forecasting, financial feasibility study, and strategy development. The theoretical knowledge is enhanced by the industry experts and entrepreneurs, who also share their personal experiences with the participants.
Dwellerin
Professionals
Surya Chauhan
Nitish Garg
Smart Traffic Management
Plug2Mart
24
Tiger project
Credfic
Bhayal Mahipal
Automobile
Close
Improved competence, access to funds and networking
Workshops
Creations of Writing
Cross Time-3D Tech Bot
Competence development
4
Activities @ UCIE
Others
Panel Arc Meta Search Engine
Flash Buzzar
20
Ankit Dubey
Suyash Jain
Amrit Pratyush
Year 2016
The key technology focus areas are: Transportation, Infrastructure, E-commerce, Education, Energy, IT/ITES Gaming and Animation Cloud Computing, Biotechnology, Energy Technology, Food Processing Technology, Retail Technology and Fashion Technology.
Prof. Sahu
Tread Meal
Provide consultancy in business planning, market research and corporate development
Facilities Institutional support
Agri
Librinify
Food
Rakesh Soni
Future entrepreneurs
Infrastructure
Himanshu Wadhwa
22
Café Cultures
Rahi
Viscometer
18
Design
UCIE aims to build an entrepreneurial ecosystem in Uttarakhand and empower the existing stakeholders by providing them a network to share/discuss/leverage areas of common interest. This is achieved by conducting a series of events with its network, comprising the local community, state government departments, NGOs, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) and the PHD Chamber of Commerce by providing information about UCIE and its activities. This facilitates mutual cooperation and growth of entrepreneurship in the Uttarakhand region, invariably resulting in increased business, data bases, foreign investors and export opportunities.
Lakshya Gupta
Major activities at Centre include: Incubation and Seed-funding of Innovative Start-ups
Scrapwala
Yash Kumar Vasa
Pranjal Chaudhary
Pranjul Tiwari
Logistic Support for Army Personals
FoodPremi
3
Fintech
Vibhabv Jain
Creative, out-of-the-box thinking, not constrained by resources
Saurabh Shanu
Sleep Detector
How UCIE Helps Inculcate an entrepreneurial mindset, develop knowledge & skills
Shubham Jain
ICT
Akshit Khunger
UCIE aims to build an Entrepreneurial ecosystem in Uttarakhand to strengthen the existing stakeholders by providing them a network to share/discuss/leverage areas of common interest. This would invariably result in valuable help in a short period of time there by economic cooperation in the future. UCIE conducts a series of events with network of local community, Departments of State Government, NGOs, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), PHD Chamber of Commerce by providing information about UCIE and its activities to build mutually enriching cooperation and growth of entrepreneurship in Uttarakhand region. This Entrepreneurial ecosystem will also establish contacts with other programs supporting business, data bases, foreign investors and export opportunities.
Social
Student
Soap lift Sensor
Value for clients:
1
13
19
Load More
Saurav Sinha
Centre is currently working with 32 Incubatee organizations; of which 3 are Pvt. Ltd. entities, one is LLP and One Incubatee organization’s registration as a trust is under process. Ms. Pramiti Upadhyay, Founder of SOCH (an incubatee organization) has been selected as one of the honorary for Prestigious Laureate Here for Good Award. In last semester of academic year 2016-17; 532 students of 8 B. Tech Programs and 4 BBA Programs were taught Venture Ideation though LNO Portal as a pilot project.
Clovation
Vishnu
31
Incubation Model
Value for Clients
JustComfort
Organic Ginger
Aaron Eipe John
Builder Consultancy
26
UCIE works keeping the following three parameters in mind:
Chiranjeevi Chandan
Year wise list of Projects Incubated so far Year 2015
Sagar Vaghasia
Cyber Security
So you can be
Coal from organic waste
Sameer Budhwar
Roushan Jha
11
Campus Supplier
Edtech
EatStreet
Chakradhar
Provide resources to aspiring entrepreneurs to start their companies
E-Commerce
Piezoelectric
UCIE primarily works with focus on following three parameters and their sub-constituents to improve and evaluate operational and strategic effectiveness:
Nature of startup (Area of Specialization)
UCIE is a member of UBI Global, this provides Centre a unique opportunity to understand, explore and visualize the state and impact of India's incubation ecosystem in a more efficient way. This also helps in sharing global incubation best practices and insights and nurtures a network within Centre’s own ecosystem.
Access to funds
2016
Ankur Mangal
Life sciences
For the next academic year Centre would be educating 2936 young students the basic concepts of Entrepreneurship through online courses. This will include all second year students of 32 B. Tech Programs of College of Engineering Studies, 14 BBA Programs of School of Business, 5 Programs of School of Law and 2 Programs of School of Design .
Vendoee
Value for Ecosystem
Utkarsh Agarwal
9
Value for ecosystem:
Tech
Education
TutorIn
Dia Goel
Vindhya
UCIE
Parminder Singh
Neelam Chullah
Capsule
14
27
Rahul Sharma
Home
UCIE association with University Business Incubator (UBI) Global
Venateshwaran
Students
CAP
12
Anuriddha Singhai
Attractiveness of the Incubator
Paradrone
29
Program Attractiveness
Shambuk Ventures
BagPack 4 Blinds
SecureX
Sindher Oj
Raghav Laad
Lovish Gupta
Abhishek Dubey
R Issac
7
Fire Simulator
Create a conducive and professional environment for entrepreneurial activities
Cleantech
Haitsina Kaurinta
Help in financing businesses
As the Centre moves further and starts playing a pivotal role in building startup ecosystem in Uttarakhand region, it would be working as Knowledge Partner with JumpStart; Jumpstart is the first co-working hub and incubator in the private sector in Uttarakhand located in the heart of Dehradun.
Eligibility Criteria
Varun Pisal
Sagar Sengupta
UCIE is a member of the University Business Incubator (UBI) Global, an international platform, which connects corporations and governments with innovative thinkers and doers globally. This collaboration provides UCIE a unique opportunity to understand, explore and visualize the state and impact of India's incubation ecosystem in a more efficient manner.
15
Assist in commercialisation of intellectual property
Develop strong alliances with regional businesses and technology communities through incubation programs
10
Learn more
UCIE provides a platform to students, aspiring entrepreneurs, technology start-ups as well as lab-stage innovations to flourish. It promotes critical thinking which is not constrained by resources so one can become an entrepreneur or a successful corporate professional. UCIE encourages talent and innovation by giving opportunities to the potential change-makers, thereby contributing towards bringing a social and economic transformation.
Akas Ranjan
AimSquire
Emerging Entrepreneurs
SOCH
Start-ups require research of the industry growth pattern, competitors, problems, challenges, and other relevant market information. UCIE, therefore, supports the young entrepreneurs by providing research-based analytical insights. Conferences are held for young entrepreneurs in order to share knowledge on industry trends and innovation on the whole.
Aaron John
Transportation