Wifi-Enabled Laptop for every Faculty member
UPES, as per norms, encourages research and consulting work amongst the faculty members. You can spend 52 days in a year on consultancy and research activities. Additionally, you will be given weightage in your annual appraisal/contract renewal
Transport facility (on subsidized charge) to and fro campus
Working at UPES
UPES encourages its faculty to engage in various self-development activities. 2-3 FDP's per annum together with nominations to national and international seminars/conferences and membership to professional associations form the three key nuances of our approach to the professional development of faculty
Salary commensurate with qualifications and years of experience, benchmarked with the best in the education sector
Home
Information on UPES’ state of the art infrastructure, facilities, accreditation and awards, vision and mission etc. can be found elsewhere on the website.
UPES adopts a unique approach in its selection and recruitment of faculty and other executives. We value, not just academic credentials, but we also look for initiative and innovation, which are an intrinsic part of the culture at UPES. Some of the parameters include:
Close
Faculty Login
Load More
UPES has a resident male and a female doctor, ALS ambulance and a pharmacy at the campus. Consultant Psychologist is also available for assistance
Benefits
Technical Infra support
Work Culture
Workshops/Seminars Attended/Conducted
Panel’s Recommendation
Experience in Industry and Research Organizations
Faculty "Internship" Program - Project Abhigyat to equip faculty with current industry knowledge and experiences.
Supplemented with interactions with international professors and world-renowned domain expert.
Ample opportunities for professional development and acquiring new skills.
Faculty Development Programs, R&D projects, seminars, workshops and conferences.
Interested in becoming a UPES Staff or Faculty, find details on career opening & other resources.
View all necessary links for current faculty to access available resources & educational tools.
Paper Publications/Presentations
Eligibility Criteria
UPES is an ideal destination for a dynamic and rewarding career. There are many ways in which the university allows its teaching and non-teaching staff to contribute in making learning an exciting and valuable journey for the student as well as themselves.
On-campus housing (limited availability)
Attractions for Employees
UPES is young, innovative and industry driven and committed to academic excellence. A place to continue personal and professional development, UPES is dedicated to creating an international, inclusive, world class learning environment with a vibrant community of teachers, staff and students who participate in its growth towards becoming the premier institution in this field.
International Exposure
Projects Guided/Undertaken
Employee Mail
Growth opportunities for Faculty / Researchers
Surrogate residential campus at Silver Heights, 3 km away from the University (assistance provided by the administrative department for 3 BHK row houses at Silver Heights, which is currently occupied by more than 60 faculty members of UPES)
Benefits like Gratuity, Medical Insurance, EL Encashment, etc. over and above the salary
Assistance for searching and finalizing house in the city, along with other services like gas connection, school admissions, bank account opening etc
UPES has a well-stocked library of 3 levels, each level dedicated to a specific College. It has over 60,000 volumes of publications including books, reports and proceedings, more than 150 National & International Journals, online resources in terms of E-books, CDs and access to E-Journals (about 3500).
Opportunity to do Ph. D. (with high fee concession if done in UPES)
Our Labs focus on research and innovation. We have 70 specialized labs adhering to international benchmarks.
UPES Employees
UPES provides special discounts to the children of the faculty 25% waiver of tuition fees, provided you children meet the eligibility and admission criteria
Teaching/Relevant Role Experience
Faculty Living
Qualification and Academic background