vi. Subscribe to newsletters.
Manage UPES's everyday business needs, such as website administration, fulfilment of orders, analytics, fraud detection and prevention, compliance with the law or reporting obligation, or enforcement of UPES Terms of Service.
Information UPES Collect About You:
Administer contests or any promotional activities or events sponsored by UPES.
Operate and improve UPES website and Services.
UPES may collect your personal information such including but not limited to bank details, and passport details to assist with the study abroad program which includes services like Letters of recommendation, student profiles, student visas and applications to university programs.
Home
i. Accessing and Correcting YOUR Information: You have the right to know whether your Personal Information has been stored and can consult with UPES about any Personal Information to verify the accuracy of such information and receive a copy thereof. You have the right to have the Information supplemented, erased, updated, or corrected. For its transformation into an anonymous format or to block any data held in violation of the law, requests should be sent to us by email at
Processing personal information:
h. Disclosure of YOUR Information: UPES may disclose Personal Information that UPES collect, or you provide as described in this Policy:
To ask questions or comment about this Privacy Policy and UPES privacy practices, contact us at:
. UPES will retain your information if your account is active or as needed to provide you with the desired Services, conduct UPES internal operations, and maintain a record of your transactions for financial reporting purposes. All information will also be retained and used, as necessary, to comply with UPES legal obligations, resolve disputes, and enforce UPES agreements.
Personal information (PI):
Close
v. Submit online applications and forms to UPES; and
Track and analyze your use of UPES Services.
a. Personal Information, which includes information through which you may be personally identified, such as name, postal addresses, email addresses, IP address, social media website user account names, telephone numbers, companies you may be associated with, education, employment history, or other addresses at which you receive communications from or on behalf of UPES ("Personal Information")
l. Changes to UPES Privacy Policy: UPES reserves the right to update this Policy from time to time. UPES will notify you of any changes and/or modifications to the Policy by updating the “Last Modified” date on this Policy, sending an electronic communication detailing the changes, posting a notification on the Services, or as required by law. Any changes or modifications will be effective immediately upon posting the updated Policy on UPES’s Services. You are encouraged to periodically review this Policy to stay informed of updates. Your continued use of UPES’s Services after receipt of such revised Policy will be deemed an acceptance of the revised Policy.
admissions@upes.ac.in
Informing you about our college and courses
Communicate and provide additional information that may be of interest to you about UPES, partner institutions, service partners and vendors.
Please read this policy carefully to understand UPES policies and practices regarding your information and how UPES will treat it. If you do not agree with UPES policies and practices, your choice is not to use UPES Services. By accessing or using UPES Services, you agree to this Policy. This Policy may change from time to time. Any change in the Policy shall be notified, from time to time, and continuing to use the Services after receiving notice will constitute acceptance of the changes.
UPES may also disclose your Personal Information:
ii. Enter contests run by us from time to time;
behalf, processing payments, providing analytics services, and helping UPES provide services as requested by users. UPES service providers are bound by law or contract to protect Personal Information and are only allowed to use Personal Information following the terms of UPES service agreements with them. UPES do NOT share, sell, rent, or trade Personal Information with third parties for their own promotional purposes, and UPES will only share Personal Information as outlined herein or with your consent. However, it is explicitly understood that you are providing your express consent to receive information, including telemarketing, about products and services from us and you hereby agree and consent to our contacting you are using the information you have provided to us. UPES or its trusted partners may contact you by e-mail, phone, SMS, WhatsApp and other kinds of text messages, social networks, or any other means of communication.
UPES may process your Personal Information for the following purposes:
f. Information Automatically Collected: When you use UPES Services, UPES may collect certain information as described below to improve UPES Services, troubleshoot bugs, provide the Services, manage the Services, track usage, and provide content for referring traffic sources. Such information may include IP address; profile information; aggregate user data; preferences; technical session information; browser type; information about your computer, hardware, software, or mobile device, including a device identifier; demographic information including zip code; and navigational data including log files, server logs, clickstream data, and language preference. User IP addresses are recorded for security and monitoring and for providing services. If you arrived at the UPES website via a link from another webpage, UPES may receive aggregate or otherwise anonymous statistical information about your visit to the UPES site. UPES monitor customer traffic patterns and site usage to help us develop the design of the site, and to improve the content of the UPES website to better match the interests of UPES website users. UPES may combine this automatically collected and other Non-Personal Information with Personal Information, in which case UPES will treat the combined information as Personal Information under this Privacy Policy.
(1) To comply with any court order, law, or legal process, including responding to any government or regulatory request.
Many UPES services require you to register on myopes.upes.ac.in and/or other online forms shared with you. UPES will ask for personal information, such as, but not limited to your name, email address and telephone number, educational background, work experience, and date of birth.
UPES collects the following information:
b. Non-Personal Information, which includes information that alone cannot be used to identify you or to establish any contact with you. Such Non-Personal Information may include but is not limited to; browser information and details; operating system information; mobile device information; pages accessed; times of visit; and referring websites, applications, or services, including the relevant search queries that led you to UPES Services (“Non- Personal Information”);
d. Method of Collecting Information: UPES collects Information in two ways: (1) Information you provide directly; and (2) Information UPES receive from your use of UPES Services.
Eligibility Criteria
Terms
Provide Services to you.
• To UPES service providers, which provide services for UPES including but not limited to sending emails on UPES
Provide customer support, including support to UPES vendors or business partners.
iv. Connect other online accounts with your UPES account, such as Facebook or LinkedIn;
c. Collectively, Personal Information and Non-Personal Information shall be referred to as “Information.”
Contact Information
g. How UPES May Use YOUR Information: UPES may use Information collected about you or that you provide to us, including any Personal Information, to:
i. Send UPES any electronic communication (including via email or any other application);
iii. Create a user account;
If you use a social media platform or your mobile device (or other methods of communication) to interact with UPES, the communication method or application may have a specific and independent privacy policy that governs the use of Personal Information.
(2) To enforce or apply UPES Terms of Services and other agreements, including for billing and collection purposes.
Preventing, detecting, investigating, and prosecuting crimes (including but not limited to fraud and other financial crimes) in any jurisdiction, identity verification, government sanctions screening and due diligence checks
e. Information is collected when you:
j. Data Security: The security of your Personal Information is important to UPES. UPES has implemented reasonable administrative, technical, and physical security measures designed to secure and protect your Information from accidental loss and unauthorized access, use, alteration, and disclosure. However, as the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure, UPES cannot guarantee the security of information transmitted to UPES Services. Any transmission of Personal Information shall be at your own risk.
Privacy Policy
This Privacy Policy (“Policy”) describes the types of information UPES may collect directly from you or your authorized representative or may be collected from a third party such as a representative authorized by UPES to provide services to you or the information that you may provide when you use UPES’s website, services, and application (collectively “Services”). UPES will only collect such Information by lawful and fair means. This Policy does not apply to information collected by any third party, including through any application or content (including advertising) that may link to or be accessible from or on UPES’s Services.
Send you reminders, notices, updates, security alerts, support and administrative messages, service bulletins, or marketing materials.
UPES does not collect Personal and Sensitive information unless the information is reasonably necessary for conducting our business functions/activities.
(3) If UPES believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to protect the rights, property, or safety of UPES, UPES customers, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for the purposes of fraud protection and credit risk reduction.
k. Children’s Personal Information: UPES do not knowingly collect or solicit Personal Information from anyone under the age of 16. If you are under 16, please do not attempt to register for the Services or send any Information about yourself to us. Parents and legal guardians are encouraged to monitor the activities of their wards in this regard. If UPES learns that UPES has collected Information from a child under age 16, UPES will delete that information as quickly as possible. If you believe that a child under 16 may have provided us with Information, please contact us at admissions@upes.ac.in.
Aggregate anonymous data from UPES Services is used to benchmark, analyze, and improve the Services.
Introduction
UPES respects your privacy and is committed to protecting it by complying with this policy.
Personal Information shall mean and include any information relating to an identified or identifiable living person. Using a common identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that natural person or any other piece of information as per applicable laws and regulations.
Privacy Policy | UPES
UPES collects several types of information. Such information is utilized in providing an efficient and effective experience to all users. When UPES provides the Services to you, your data is stored on UPES computers and servers. In some cases, the data may be accessible to people involved with the operation of the site (administration, sales, marketing, legal, and system administration) or external parties (such as third-party technical service providers, mail carriers, hosting providers, IT companies, communications agencies) appointed, as necessary, as Data Processors by us.
If you do not want to be on the UPES mailing list, you can opt-out anytime by sending an email to admissions@upes.ac.in or clicking on the "unsubscribe" button on UPES respective communications. From time to time, UPES may use your Personal Information to send important notices to you regarding material changes to UPES terms, conditions, and policies or purchased services which you may not opt out of receiving.
Establishing, exercising, or defending legal rights in connection with legal proceedings (including any prospective legal proceedings) and seeking professional or legal advice for such legal proceedings.