While UPES endeavour to keep the information up to date and correct, it makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability, or availability with respect to the website or the information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the website for any purpose. Any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk.
UPES also reserves the right to exclude you from any course before or after its commencement of course, if in UPES’s absolute discretion UPES considers that you are impeding the provision of the course or other of UPES’s activities, or your presence is bringing or threatening to bring the UPES or any part of it or its subsidiaries into disrepute. In these circumstances, UPES will refund all fees paid by you but will have no further liability to you in respect of such termination or exclusion.
If you use this site, you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your account and password, if any, and for restricting access to your computer, and you agree to accept responsibility for all activities that occur under your account or password. You agree that billing and registration information you provide on the Sites will be accurate and complete. UPES reserves the right to refuse service, terminate accounts, remove, or edit content, or cancel orders in their sole discretion.
Sites may include un-moderated forums containing the personal opinions and other expressions of the persons who post entries on a wide range of topics. Neither the content of these Sites, nor the links to other web sites, are screened, approved, reviewed, or endorsed by the UPES. UPES is not a publisher of any of the content of the Sites, or of any content that may be available through links to and from them. The text and other material on these Sites are the opinion of the specific author(s) and are not statements of advice, opinion, or information of UPES. If you feel you might be offended by the content of the Sites, you should not continue.
Content that defames or threatens other Statements that are hateful or racially offensive. Content that discusses illegal activities with the intent to commit them.
Your Account
Copyright Complaints
We reserve the right to make changes to this policy. Any changes to this policy will be posted.
a. Alter the timetable, location or presenters specified for a course; and
Home
The logo, name, and all graphics on the Sites of UPES are trademarks of UPES or its sister institutions. Use, reproduction, copying or redistribution of trademarks, without the written permission of UPES or its sister institutions is prohibited. All other trademarks or brand names appearing on the Site are the marks of their respective owners.
Disclaimer
Close
Please read these terms of use ("Terms") carefully before accessing or participating in any chatroom, newsgroup, website, transaction, or other online forum available at upes.ac.in, or other UPES sites ("site" or "sites") by using and participating in these sites, you signify that you have read these terms and agree to be bound by and comply with them. If you do not agree to be bound by these terms, please promptly exit all sites. UPES reserves the right to modify these terms at any time and will publish notice of any such modifications online at this site or elsewhere online. By continuing to access a site after notice of such modifications has been published, you signify your agreement to be bound by them.
You may use Sites for legal purposes only. Furthermore, you agree that, if a third-party claims that any material you have contributed to a Site is unlawful, you will bear the burden of establishing that the material complies with all applicable laws. Although UPES does not monitor the content of the Sites, UPES has the right to remove material from the Sites, block access, or take other action with respect to the Material in its sole discretion, although UPES is under no obligation to do so. You may not use UPES computing resources or Sites to disseminate unsolicited advertising or promotional material of any kind.
Every effort is made to ensure that information contained on this website is accurate and up to date. However, the contents of individual courses and the programme for any given award are under constant academic review considering current circumstances and may change from time to time, with some programmes and courses being modified, discontinued, or replaced. UPES reserves the right at any time to change or amend the details including course and module content, dates, time, locations, fees and the Terms and Conditions.
Terms and Conditions
The Sites may contain errors and omissions relating to product description, pricing, and availability. We reserve the right to correct errors or omissions without prior notice.
UPES’s Site may include hyperlinks to websites maintained or controlled by others. UPES is not responsible for and does not routinely screen, approve, review, or endorse the contents of or use of any of the products or services that may be offered at these websites. Choice of Law/Forum Selection Sites are hosted by UPES on computing resources located on any of the UPES campuses, regional centres or elsewhere in the world. You agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to these Terms, or any content posted to a Site, including copies and re-publication thereof, whether based in contract, tort, statutory or other law, will be governed by the laws of the NCT Delhi excluding its conflicts of law provisions.
Eligibility Criteria
Link to Other Websites
These sites and any information, products or services therein are provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including without limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for use of a particular purpose, or non-infringement. UPES does not warrant, and hereby disclaims any warranties, either express or implied, with respect to the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of any Site, information obtained from a Site, or link to a Site. UPES does not warrant that Sites will operate in an uninterrupted or error-free manner or that Sites are free of viruses or other harmful components. Use of information obtained from or through these Sites is at your own risk. You agree that UPES will not be liable to you for any loss or damages, either actual or consequential, arising out of or relating to these terms, or to your (or any third party's) use or inability to use a site, or to your placement of content on a site, or to your reliance upon information obtained from or through a site. In particular, UPES will have no liability for any consequential, indirect, punitive, special or incidental damages, whether foreseeable or unforeseeable, (including, but not limited to, claims for defamation, errors, loss of data, or interruption in availability of data), arising out of loss of data or profits arising out of , or relating to these terms, your use or inability to use this website, or any purchases on this site, or your placement of content on a site, or to your reliance upon information obtained from or through a site, whether based in contract, tort, statutory or other law, except only in the case of death or personal injury where and only to the extent that applicable law requires such liability. UPES makes no representation regarding your ability to transmit and receive information from or through the Sites and you agree and acknowledge that your ability to access the Sites may be impaired. UPES disclaims all liability resulting from or related to such events.
These Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and UPES and its affiliates with respect to the subject matter herein and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous oral or written agreements.
UPES respects the intellectual property rights of others. If you believe your copyright has been violated on this site, please give notice of this violation addressed to the Registrar, UPES.
Permission to Use Materials
Disclaimer of Warranty/Limitation of Liability
You agree to indemnify and hold UPES harmless from any claims, losses, or damages, including legal fees, resulting from your violation of these Terms, your use of a Site or your placement of any content onto a Site, and to fully co-operate in UPES’s defence against any such claims.
UPES will make all reasonable efforts to deliver the course as outlined on UPES’s site and in any brochure or published material. However, UPES reserves the right to:
UPES reserves the right to cancel your course booking in UPES’s absolute discretion, and refund all fees paid by you, irrespective of whether the course itself is to proceed, without any further liability on our part.
Terms and Conditions | UPES
General
Commitment to Data Security
Other
In consideration for your agreement to the terms and conditions contained here, UPES grants you (“User”) a personal, non-exclusive, non-transferable license to access and use the Sites. User may download material from the Sites only for User's own personal, non-commercial use. User may not otherwise copy, reproduce, retransmit, distribute, publish, commercially exploit, or otherwise transfer any material. The burden of determining that use of any information, software or any other content on the Site is permissible rests with User.
Trademarks
UPES reserves the right to cancel a course before or after its commencement of course by giving a notice, at any time due to any internal technical or administrative reasons or due to insufficient strength of the course. If UPES cancels a course, you will be eligible for a full refund of the course fee. UPES may also offer a transfer to another course as an alternative, subject to payment or refund of any difference in course fees.
Limitation of Use
Introduction
Terms of Use
Rules for Online Conduct
You agree to use the Sites in accordance with all applicable laws. You agree that you will not e-mail or post any of the following content anywhere on the Site, or on any other UPES computing resources:
Force Majeure
Indemnification
UPES will process any refund due as soon as possible and, in any case, within 45 days of notice of cancellation. The refund will be made using the same method of payment that you originally used to make your course booking unless otherwise expressly agreed with you.
Content that infringes another's intellectual property, including, but not limited to, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets Material that contains vulgar or obscene language or image Advertising or any form of commercial solicitation Copyrighted material, including without limitation software, graphics, text, photographs, sound, video and musical recordings, may not be placed on the Site without the explicit permission of the owner of the copyright in the material, or other legal entitlement to use the material. UPES students using this Site are expected to abide by the following standards which provide: "Students at UPES are expected to show both within and without the UPES such respect for order, morality, personal honour and the rights of others as is demanded of good citizens. Failure to do this will be sufficient cause for removal from the UPES." Although UPES does not routinely screen or monitor content posted by users to the Site, UPES reserves the right to remove content which violates the above rules of which it becomes aware but is under no obligation to do so. Finally, you agree that you will not access or attempt to access any other user's account or misrepresent or attempt to misrepresent your identity while using the Sites.
Your personally identifiable information is kept secure. Only authorized employees (who have agreed to keep information secure and confidential) have access to this information.
Every effort is made to keep the website up and running smoothly. However, UPES takes no responsibility for, and will not be liable for, the website being temporarily unavailable due to technical issues beyond our control.
b. Make reasonable amendments to the content and syllabus of a course, when necessary.