upes.ac.in

UNIVERSITY OF TOMORROW

ABOUT UPES
Established through the UPES Act, 2003, of the State Legislature of Uttarakhand, UPES is a top-ranked,
UGC-recognised, private university. As per the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
2023, the Ministry of Education, Government of India, UPES has been ranked 52, with a rank of 54 in
Engineering and a rank of 39 in Management. In addition to this, the university has been ranked the
No. 1 private university in academic reputation in India by the QS World University Rankings 2024 and
is among the top 3% of universities in the world. As per the QS World University Rankings 2024: Asia,
UPES has been ranked 218 in Asia and 23 in India among all the Indian institutions.
As per the Times Higher Education (THE) World Ranking 2024, UPES is in the overall rank band of 801–
1000 in the world, 9th among private and deemed universities, 2nd among private universities, and 26th
in the overall universities category in India. According to the prestigious Shanghai Ranking—Academic
Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) for Global Ranking of Academic Subjects, UPES is among the
world’s top 150 institutions for telecommunication engineering, among the top 400 for Electrical and
Electronic Engineering, and among the top 500 for Computer Science and Engineering.
UPES has also been accredited by NAAC with a grade of ‘A’ and has received 5 stars on employability
(placements) by the globally acclaimed QS Rating. The university has had 90%+ placements over the
last few years. 41 faculty members of UPES are among the world’s top 2% of researchers, as per the
Stanford University list.
UPES offers graduate and postgraduate programs through its seven schools: School of Advanced
Engineering, School of Computer Science, School of Design, School of Law, School of Business, School of
Health Sciences and Technology, and School of Liberal Studies, with 14,000+ students and 1,500+ faculty
and staff members.

2

UNIVERSITY OF TOMORROW
UPES – the University of Tomorrow – stands as a beacon of transformative education, cultivating a
dynamic learning environment that goes beyond conventional boundaries. At UPES, the commitment
to academic excellence is seamlessly woven with a robust emphasis on digital preparedness,
propelling students into the future with cutting-edge skills.
Runway, the business incubator at UPES, has been encouraging student-led start-ups, fostering a
culture of entrepreneurship and innovation on campus.
The university’s global exposure initiatives ensure that students are not just educated but are globally
aware, prepared to navigate diverse landscapes. UPES has forged partnerships with prestigious
institutions worldwide, including the University of California, Berkeley, UNSW Sydney, The University of
Queensland, Australia, University of Gothenburg, University of Bologna, and University of Aberdeen,
besides several others.
UPES envisions, designs, and delivers education that is not just relevant for today, but anticipates the
challenges and opportunities of the future, moulding students into leaders who will make a positive
impact on the world.

NO.1 PRIVATE UNIVERSITY

*

IN ACADEMIC REPUTATION

*QS World University Rankings 2024

RANKED 52ND

#

IN INDIA

Ranking 2023
#

University Category

9TH

AMONGST PRIVATE AND
DEEMED UNIVERSITIES*
*in India

About UPES | 3

4

HOLISTIC DEVELOPMENT
What is the purpose of education? Is it merely to make students employable, remove ignorance and impart
knowledge? Or is it to create a better world? The seismic shifts taking place globally necessitate action to
ensure a secure and equitable future for all. Learners today are, therefore, required to be creative, collaborative
and communicative. They must develop skills to solve complex problems that plague humanity, work towards
equity, uplift the underserved, live healthy, happy, and productive lives. UPES School for Life (SFL) was
established with the intention to create true changemakers. Students learn to apply an
in-depth understanding of attained life skills and broad-based subject competencies along with core subject
qualifications, to take advantage of educational and employment opportunities. This broad-based learning
experience helps them evolve throughout their professional and personal lives.
The undergraduate program at UPES offers four clearly demarcated, yet academically integrated areas,
covering Core Specialisation courses, Exploratory (Interdisciplinary Electives), Signature and Life Skill courses,
all of which are credited and form the basis of the degree awarded. School for Life offers the latter three
selections of courses, which are structured to be read alongside the students’ core academic curriculum.

SIGNATURE
COURSES
These courses include areas that are not
specifically linked to a vocation and focus on
21st century learner skills and attributes to meet
the requirements of the graduate profile. They
empower students as global citizens of the
future. These courses are undertaken by all UPES
undergraduates and select graduate students from
specific disciplines.

LIFE SKILL
These courses allow students to upskill into
university learning styles and pick up additional
skills with a focus on enhanced employability
and communication, along with management
and professional skills, including critical thinking,
problem-solving, and creativity.

EXPLORATORY
(Interdisciplinary Electives)

These courses encourage students to develop a
broad-based approach to learning by selecting
subjects of study from other schools at the
university. This helps them grow their breadth
and depth of knowledge beyond their chosen
specialisation and exposes them to the wider
scope of university education.

‘SRIJAN’ SOCIAL
INTERNSHIPS
Srijan Social Internships are full-time, 8-week-long
internships with social sector organisations.
These internships are offered as part of School for Life
at UPES and are for all first-year students. Through
these internships, students will be exposed to a variety
of social sector challenges that our society is facing
and find ways to overcome them. In the process, they
will build empathy and learn valuable leadership skills
that will be useful in both work and life.

About UPES | 5

DESIGN YOUR OWN DEGREE
The UPES curriculum framework is holistic in its

School of Design, and School of Liberal Studies.

overall structure, yet focuses on the individual

The curriculum also offers Signature and

needs of students to discover, experience,

Life-Skills courses through the School for Life.

explore, and challenge. Along with the core

To round off this learning experience, students

subject, students can choose from subject-

are required to undertake mandatory internships

focused specialisations. They are also allowed

in the social sector, government/public sector,

to choose minor/exploratory subjects from

and industry. The combinations available for

other schools at UPES, which include: School

students to pick and choose from are endless,

of Advanced Engineering, School of Computer

ensuring both depth and breadth of knowledge.

Science, School of Law, School of Business,
School of Health Sciences and Technology,

GLOBAL
OPPORTUNITIES

+

INDUSTRY
EXPOSURE

Minor 1

Specialisation

Minor 2

Core Degree
Minor 3

Specialisation
and more…
Minor 4

STEP 1

Choose your degree program like
MBA/M.Des. /B.Tech./LL.B./
B.Des./BBA/B.Com./B.Sc., etc.

STEP 2

Choose a specialisation from
options available corresponding to the
selected degree program. UPES offers
150+ specialisation across its 7 schools

and more…

STEP 3

Add minors to your degree program
from 200+ options available ranging
from Design Thinking, Digital Marketing
Artificial Intelligence, Ethical Hacking
and more...

SCHOOL FOR LIFE
LIFE SKILLS COURSES I EXPLORATORY COURSES I SIGNATURE COURSES

6

GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES
Semester Abroad

International Credit
Transfer
and more...

Student Exchange
and Research
and more...

Masters Progression
(UG to PG)
Accelerated Masters

Semester Abroad
with Tuition fee
Waiver

About UPES | 7

INDUSTRY IN
THE CLASSROOM
The educational framework seamlessly integrates practical knowledge, bridging
the gap between academia and real-world practices and providing students with
insights and skills relevant to their future careers.
Industry Alliances:

STUDIO 34

and more...

8

Masterclasses
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Dr. Deepak Vohra, Former Indian Ambassador
Dr. Jagdish N. Seth, Prof. Marketing, Emory University (Padma Bhushan Awardee)
Dr. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director, Amul India
Geeta Suthar, Co-Founder, Fractal Ink Design Studios
Prof. Nina Sabnani, Industrial Design Centre, IIT Bombay
Pratap Bose, Chief Design Officer, Mahindra Group
Mr. Vijay Vaidya, Associate Director (Statistical Programming)
Ms. Richa Mattu, Nutrition & Health Leader								

and more...

About UPES | 9

10

STUDENT OUTCOMES
2550+

4050+

33.21%

STUDENTS PLACED

TOTAL OFFERS

INCREASE IN AVG. CTC
FROM LAST YEAR

50LPA*

750+

HIGHEST PACKAGE

RECRUITERS

RECRUITERS

and more...
*in School of Computer Science

About UPES | 11

STORIES OF EXCELLENCE​

Anmol Jaggi
B.Tech – Applied Petroleum
Engineering, 2007
Leads 800 technocrats in the renewable
energy domain at Gensol Engineering Limited.
He is the co-founder of BluSmart Electric Mobility.

Navneet Singh
B.Tech - CSE, 2016
Silver Medalist at the Birmingham Commonwealth Games 2022
and Gold Medalist at the 36th Indian National Games 2022
(Sport – Lawn Bowls).

Aayush Bijalwal
M.Des - Industrial and
Transportation Design, 2015
Secured a victory in TVS Motor Co.’s Call of Design
Season 2 by designing a stylish version of the TVS NTORQ.

12

Ugyen Tshering
B.Tech - Geo Informatics, 2020
Topped the Bhutan Civil Services Exam 2021.

Nikhil Moghe
MBA - Oil and Natural Gas, 2005
Partner at KPMG, India.

Mudit Verma
B.Tech - Aerospace, Aeronautical,
and Astronautical Engineering, 2010
Co-Founder of RayMach Technologies.

About UPES | 13

PROGRAMS OFFERED
School of Advanced Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering/Technology
Electronics and Computer Engineering | Applied Petroleum Engineering | Aerospace Engineering
Chemical Engineering | Electrical Engineering | Fire and Safety Engineering | Mechanical Engineering
Sustainability Engineering | Automotive Engineering | Civil Engineering

Global Pathway Program - 2 Years in UPES Campus +2 Years in Partner Campus
Chemical Engineering - University of Queensland
Electrical Engineering - University of Queensland
Mechanical Engineering - University of Queensland | University of Aberdeen
Applied Petroleum Engineering - University of New South Wales | University of Aberdeen
Civil Engineering - University of Queensland | University of Aberdeen

Master of Engineering/Technology
Computational Fluid Dynamics | Chemical Engineering | Health, Safety, and Environment
Petroleum Engineering | Robotics Engineering | Sustainability Engineering | Renewable Energy
Construction Technology and Management | E-Mobility

Bachelor of Science
Chemistry | Physics | Geology | Mathematics

Master of Science (Hons.)
Applied Geology

Master of Science
Chemistry | Physics | Mathematics

School of Computer Science
Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering - Specialisation*
Cloud Computing and Virtualisation Technology | Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning | DevOps
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics | Graphics and Gaming | Bigdata | Data Science
Internet of Things (IoT) | Full Stack Development

Global Pathway Program - 2 Years in UPES Campus +2 Years in Partner Campus
Computer Science - University of Queensland

Bachelor of Science
B.Sc. Computer Science - Specialisation*
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning | Cyber Security and Digital Forensics | Data Science

Bachelor of Computer Application
BCA - Specialisation*
Data Science | Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning | Cyber Security and Digital Forensics

Master of Engineering/Technology
M.Tech Computer Science and Engineering - Specialisation*
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning | Cyber Security and Digital Forensics | Data Analytics

Specialisation and minors to be opted after 1st year depending on the selected program. Credits would depend on the minors/exploratoy
courses chosen during the program duration.
*

14

School of Computer Science
Master of Computer Application - MCA
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning | Cloud Computing and Cyber Security | Data Science

Master of Science
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence

School of Design
Bachelor of Design
B.Des - Specialisation*
Game Design | Animation and VFX | Graphics and Communication Design
User Experience and Interaction Design | Product Design | Mobility and Vehicle Design
Interior and Retail Space Design

Global Pathway Program - 2 Years in UPES Campus +2 Years in Partner Campus
B.Des - Nottingham Trent University (Animation/Graphic/Product Design)

Master of Design
Communication Design | Product Design | Transportation Design | Interaction Design

School of Business
Bachelor of Business Administration
Oil and Gas Marketing | Analytics and Big Data | Digital Business | Green Energy and Sustainability
Logistics Management | Aviation Management | Foreign Trade

Global Pathway Program - 2 Years in UPES Campus + 1 Year in Partner Campus,
2 Years in UPES Campus + 2 Years in Partner Campus
BBA - Nottingham Trent University | University of Queensland | Bond University | University of Essex | Goldsmiths
| University of London

Bachelor of Commerce (Hons.)
B.Com (Hons.) - Specialisation*
E-Commerce | Banking and Insurance

Master of Business Administration
Business Analytics in collaboration with KPMG | Strategy and Consulting in collaboration with KPMG
Digital Business | Oil and Gas Management | Power Management | International Business
Logistics and Supply Chain Management | Metaverse and Web 3.0 | Aviation Management

Global Pathway Program - 1 Year in UPES Campus + 1 Year in Partner Campus
GISMA University of Applied Sciences | Virginia Commonwealth University | University Canada West (UCW)
University of Queensland

Integrated Programs
Integrated (BBA - MBA) - Specialisation*
Marketing Management | Finance Management | Human Resource | Operations Management

Integrated (B.Com (Hons) - (MBA)
E-Commerce | Banking and Insurance
*Specialisation and minors to be opted after 1st year depending on the selected program. Credits would depend on the minors/exploratoy
courses chosen during the program duration.

About UPES | 15

School of Law
Bachelor of Law
BA LL.B (Hons.) | BBA LL.B (Hons.) | B.Com LL.B (Hons.) | LL.B

Master of Law
LL.M

School of Health Sciences and Technology
Undergraduate Program
B.Pharm
B.Sc - Food, Nutrition and Dietetics | Microbiology | Clinical Research
B.Tech - Biomedical Engineering | Food Technology | Biotechnology

Postgraduate Program
M.Sc - Microbiology | Nutrition and Dietetics

School of Liberal Studies
Undergraduate Programs
B.Sc (Hons.) 3 + 1 Years** - Specialisation##
Economics with Data Science | Psychology and Behaviour | Economics and Finance

B.A (Hons.) - Specialisation##
English | Political Science | History

Undergraduate Programs
BA
Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital)
Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)

Global Pathway Program - 2 Year in UPES Campus + 2 Year in Partner Campus
Goldsmiths | University of London

Postgraduate Programs
MA
Journalism and Mass Communication (Digital)
Digital and Mass Media (Broadcasting)

**Students can finish their 3-year degree with a combination of major and minor(s), or a 4-year Hons.
##Specialisation and minors to be opted after 1st year, depending on the selected program. Credits would depend on the minors/
exploratoy courses chosen during the Program duration. The program offerings are subject to the approval of the UPES Academic Council,
and the university reserves the right to add, drop, and modify programs at its discretion at any point in time without prior notice.

16

THE FUTURE OF LEARNING
Start-Up Incubator, Runway
Seed fund, mentoring support, and an 8-week intensive
programme for start-ups across the country.

Unmatched Global Opportunities
Opportunities for Semester Exchange, Semester Abroad,
Master Progression, International Internships, Credit Transfer,
and many more.

Design Your Own Degree
A new curriculum framework to enhance multidisciplinary
knowledge and enable learner-driven learning.

Holistic Learning
Trans-disciplinary learning through School for Life.
Sports are an integral part of the curriculum.

Academic Excellence
41 faculty members are on the list of the top 2% of researchers
in the world, as per the Stanford University research group, and
5 among Clarivate’s highly cited researchers list.

Education for All

T&C Apply

*

Merit scholarship*.
30% fee concession* for bonafide Uttarakhand students.
Girls scholarship* (Shakti).
Sports scholarships*.
Freeships* to underprivileged students.
About UPES | 17

18

CAMPUS LIFE
• Life at UPES is truly an enriching experience, where
students can create memories that will last a lifetime.
It is about young learners discovering themselves
through engaging activities that broaden their
understanding of the world.
• There are more than twenty student chapters,
including the Society of Petroleum Engineers, Cloud
Security Alliance, the Society of Law and Literature,
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
the Moot Court Association, etc., as well as several
clubs such as the National Service Scheme, Ras Rang
Raag, Avishkarnam, Sphurit, etc. that cater to different
interests and fields of study.
• Events such as Spandan, the annual youth festival;
and ‘Wow Wednesday’, a mid-week activity for
showcasing talent, bring together students from
across all the schools on one stage.
• Sports events and activities at UPES offer students
a wide range of opportunities for personal growth
and skill development. Students develop important
values such as discipline, team spirit, patience,
and resilience.
• From learning to leisure and path-breaking
innovations to life-long friendships, life at UPES is
a vibrant blend of everything a learner aspires for.
It is a place where artists, explorers, athletes, and
innovators come together to pursue their passions
and explore new horizons.

Scan to explore
Life @ UPES

About UPES | 19

SCAN TO FOLLOW US ON

1800 102 8737 (10 am to 7 pm)
enrollments@upes.ac.in | www.upes.ac.in
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS WRITE TO US AT: international.admissions@upes.ac.in
ENERGY ACRES : BIDHOLI VIA-PREM NAGAR, DEHRADUN (UTTARAKHAND), INDIA
KNOWLEDGE ACRES : KANDOLI VIA PREM NAGAR, DEHRADUN-248 007 (UTTARAKHAND), INDIA
ADVANCED ENGINEERING | COMPUTER SCIENCE | DESIGN | BUSINESS | LAW | HEALTH SCIENCES AND TECHNOLOGY | LIBERAL STUDIES

