Debadrita Chakraborty is an Assistant Professor in the Literature department at the School of Liberal Studies at UPES. Debadrita Chakraborty leads the Gender Cluster and Debadrita Chakraborty's research focuses on the intersections of gender and South Asian literary and cultural studies. Debadrita Chakraborty earned Debadrita Chakraborty's BA (Hons) and MA (distinction) in English Literature from the University of Calcutta, India and Macquarie University, Australia, respectively. Debadrita Chakraborty's doctoral research at Cardiff University explores literary and cultural representations of the changing nature of South Asian masculine identities in Britain from the 1970s onward.

Current Projects:

Palgrave Macmillan UK: Two-part volume on gender and masculinity in South Asia
Taylor and Francis: Special issue on 75 years of partition
University Press Monograph: Gender, diaspora, and folklore in the Himalayan region

Research Interests:

Gender and masculinity studies
Ecocritical studies
Diaspora literature and culture
Folklore, memory, and partition studies
Graphic narratives and manga
Digital humanities

Teaching Philosophy:

Debadrita Chakraborty aims to develop students' Debadrita Chakraborty's subject knowledge, critical thinking skills, and communication abilities through Debadrita Chakraborty's courses. Debadrita Chakraborty emphasizes multidisciplinary approaches, logical argumentation, and the application of research methodologies to prepare students for academic and professional success.

Awards and Grants:

Charles Wallace Fellow
Sidney Perry Foundation Education Grant (2020 & 2021)
Gilchrist Educational Trust Grant (2019 & 2021)
Funds for Women Graduates (FFWG) Foundation Grant (2017 & 2018)
Cardiff University Postgraduate Bursary (2015-2016)
British Association for South Asian Studies conference grant (2016)
Digital Humanities Summer Institute, University of Victoria scholarships (2022 & 2023)

Scholarly Activities:

Debadrita Chakraborty has presented papers at over 15 international and national conferences, including those organized by the British Association of South Asian Studies (BASAS), European Association of South Asian Studies, Swedish Association of South Asian Studies, University of St. Andrews, University of Cambridge, University College Dublin, Lund University, University of Galway, IIT Madras, and Jamia Millia Islamia University. Debadrita Chakraborty has also been invited to speak at the University of Lapland and the Royal University of Bhutan.

Publications:

Debadrita Chakraborty has published over 14 articles and essays in reputable journals such as Gender, Work and Organization, Wasafiri, Journal of International Women's Studies, NORMA, and in books like Graphic Novels as World Literature and Living Theories and True Ideas in the 21st Century Reflections on Marxism and Decolonization.

Contact Information:

Email: debadrita@ddn.upes.ac.in