UPES POLICY ON PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARRASSMENT AGAINST
WOMEN - SALIENT FEATURES
THE UPES is committed to provide safe working and academic environment to all girl students
and its women employees. Salient aspects of the UPES rules and regulations covering
prevention and redressal of sexual harassment complaints against women are given in the
succeeding paragraphs.
UPES provisions have been framed in accordance with the existing law viz– The Sexual
Harrassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The UPES Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) under the above Act stands constituted. The
key members, (Screening Cell) who can be contacted by any aggrieved person, are as follows;
1. Ms Deepa Verma, Director Institutional Affairs – Chairperson.
2. Brig (Retd) Dr Anil Sharma, Director Students Affairs - Convener.
3. Ms Anshu Paliwal, Deputy Proctor – Member Secretary.
The ICC will have two functional committees as follows;
a. ICC (Prevention, Monitoring and Gender Sensitization)
b. ICC (Complaint Redressal)
The modalities of their functioning are given in the succeeding paragraphs;
ICC (PREVENTION, MONITORING AND GENDER SENSITIZATION)
Objectives
 Prevent discrimination and sexual harassment against women by promoting gender
amity among students and employees.
 By publicizing the policy through multimedia, posters, notices etc.
 To plan and organize training workshops by outside experts for select groups.
 To support structured gender sensitization sessions conducted by the UPES
counselors for student and faculty/staff.
 To organize gender sensitization focus groups among campus hostel students.
 To visit classrooms/ labs/ library/ girls hostels/ campus rounds to randomly ascertain
the level of perceptions of safety amongst women. The observations and particulars be
recorded.
 To carry out, crisis management and mediation whenever called upon, to do so.
 The committee will monitor adequacy of women safety measures like street lighting,
traffic regulation etc. and recommend up gradations on as required basis.
 The committee will have women and student representatives from all the Colleges, who
will act as Women Harassment Preventive Cells of respective Colleges.
 The Committee will also maintain coordination with Women Cell of Dehradun Police to
uphold the policy on sexual harassment.
Action on receipt of Inputs
 On receipt of any kind of verbal, written or information about grievance or simmering
discontent on account of harassment of any women, it will be reported to the Vice
Chairperson at the earliest.
 Vice Chairperson will consult Chairperson and Member Secretary and decide if the case
be handled as per OGRS or by the Preventive Committee or handed over to Complaint
Redressal Committee. Case will then be progressed accordingly.
Composition
The Prevention, Monitoring and Gender Sensitization Committee will be constituted as follows;
 Two women faculty from each College and one woman officer from HR department.
 Two girl students each from each of the College.
 Ex Officio Appointments;
 Director IA- Chairperson
 DSA- Vice Chairperson
 Deputy Proctor- Member Secretary
 College Shadow Proctors- Members
Tenure of members will be for one year.
Vice Chancellor will nominate the Committee at the commencement of academic session, on
the recommendation of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
ICC (COMPLAINT REDRESSAL)
Objectives:
 Prevent discrimination and sexual harassment against women by promoting gender
amity among students and employees.
 Deal with cases in a time bound manner as per provisions contained in the Act 2013,
referred above.
 It will act to ensure support services to the victim complainant as also cessation of
harassment.
 Examine and investigate all complaints of the UPES in accordance with detailed
provisions laid down vide the abovementioned law.
 Recommend appropriate punitive action against the guilty party.
 All consultations and proceedings of ICC and identity of the victim will be kept strictly
confidential as far as possible. To recommend action against the complainant in case the
complaint is found to be false or malicious or evidence tendered is found to be false.
The aforementioned law has conferred the ICC, with the powers of summoning / enforcing
attendance of witness, taking their deposition on oath and production of such documents /
evidence as may be required.
Composition
The Complaint Redressal Committee will be constituted every academic year by the Vice
Chancellor.
Tenure of members will be for one year.
Vice Chancellor will nominate the Committee at the commencement of academic session, on
the recommendation of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
DEFINITIONS
Sexual harassment means and includes the “unwelcome” sexually determined behavior
“whether directly or by implication” and also;
 Demand or request for sexual favors;
 Sexually colored or double meaning or unsavory remarks;
 Showing pornography or other offensive or derogatory pictures, cartoons, pamphlets or
sayings;
 Other unwelcome physical, verbal or non verbal conduct of sexual nature.
 Eve teasing, jokes causing or likely to cause awkwardness or embarrassment, innuendos
and taunts;
 Gender based insults and taunts;
 Unwelcome sexual overtones in any manner: such as over telephone/ mobile/ social
media (Facebook,Twitter, Whats Apps etc ( repeated missed calls, obnoxious calls or
sms /mms messages/ circulation of pictures / posting of videos. Even keeping of
someone else’s obscene picture in mobile/ computer / hard copy or any other device is
prohibited.
 Physical contact and advances, touching and brushing and brushing against any part of
the body, including forcible physical touch or molestation of any kind;
 Physical confinement against one’s will or any other act likely to violate one’s privacy.
(Authority - The Sexual Harrassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013 and UPES Policy against Sexual Harassment, under the Employee Welfare
Scheme Version 1.1)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROACHING THE ICC
Any person feeling aggrieved of such offence by any employee or student of the UPES may
complain in writing / by email to Member secretary, Convener or Chairperson. Confidential mail
ID for the purpose is as follows;
dsafeedback@gmail.com
Note: More members may be co-opted on as required basis.

